


































Eligibility & Volume: Eligible Hospitals | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Eligibility & Volume: Eligible Hospitals












Home




Medicaid




Electronic Health Record Incentive Program




Eligible Hospitals



Eligibility & Volume: Eligible Hospitals
















Eligibility & Volume: Eligible Hospitals
Acute Care and Critical Access Hospitals

Must have a Medicaid patient volume of at least 10% to be eligible to receive payments.
Must have a CMS Certification Number (CCN) with the last 4 digits of 0001 - 0879 or 1300 - 1399. These CCNs cover short-term general hospitals, cancer hospitals and critical access hospitals. Under the definition of the final rule, acute care hospitals and critical access hospitals must have an average length of patient stay of 25 days or fewer.

Children's Hospitals

Do not have to meet a Medicaid patient volume threshold in order to be eligible.
Must have a CCN with the last 4 digits of 3300 - 3399.

NOTE: Some hospitals may receive incentive payments from both Medicare and Medicaid if they meet all eligibility criteria.









                        Eligible Hospitals
                    





                                Eligibility & Volume: Eligible Hospitals
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












