



































Exemption from Licensure | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Exemption from Licensure












Home




Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Hospital & Outpatient Services Unit




Health Care Clinics



Exemption from Licensure











Exemption from LicensureNotices/UpdatesPursuant to 2018 statutory changes, certificates of exemption from licensure as a health care clinic must now be renewed biennially. Certificates issued prior to July 1, 2018 did not bear expiration dates. These certificates have been assigned expiration dates ranging from October 30, 2018 through July 31, 2020. Assigned expiration dates are posted on the Agency’sFacility/Provider Locatorpage.Courtesy renewal reminder postcards are currently mailed approximately 120 days prior to expiration. If the certificate holder does not receive the courtesy notice, the certificate holder continues to be legally obligated to timely file the renewal application and fee.

    Frequently Asked Questions


    [
                    
                21.8 kB
    ]

ApplicationApplication for Certificate of Exemption as a Health Care ClinicRequired to be PostedAn entity seeking a certificate of exemption must publish and maintain a schedule of charges for medical services charged to an uninsured person paying for such services by cash, check, credit card, or debit card as described in s. 400.9935 (6), Florida Statutes.Change of OwnershipThe Certificate of Exemption issued to the current exempted entity is valid only for the owner(s) and location for which it was originally issued. To report a transfer of ownership you must apply for a new initial certificate by completing the exemption application and providing all of the required documents, including a copy of the transfer documents.Address ChangeFacilities which hold a Certificate of Exemption are required to request a change of address by submitting a completed Application for Certificate of Exemption as a Health Care Clinic. The application must be received by the Agency 21 to 120 days in advance of the effective date of the change of location. Refer to Rule 59A-35.040 (2)(b)(9), F.A.C.The applicant must also meet the requirement as indicated in Rule 59A-35.060 (4), F.A.C.Applications received prior to the change of address but less than 21 days in advance will be subject to a $500 fine. Refer to Rule 59A-35.040 (3), F.A.C.Other ChangesAny information required to be reported to the agency must be submitted within 21 calendar days from the effective date of the change, as required by s. 408.810 (3), Florida Statutes.Changes must be reported by completing the exemption application form.









                        Health Care Clinics
                    





                                Exemption from Licensure
                            



                                Licensing Requirements
                            



                                Medical / Clinic Director Information
                            



                                PIP (Auto) Insurance Regulation
                            



                                Information Required to be Posted at Licensed Clinics
                            



                                Renewal - Change of Ownership - Reporting Changes
                            



                                Survey / Inspection Information
                            













                                            Jack
                                                                Plagge
                                                                
                        Manager | Hospital & Outpatient Services Unit
                                    

Bureau of Health Facility Regulation
2727 Mahan Drive, Mail Stop #53
Tallahassee, Florida 32308
                                                    Phone: (850) 412-4549

                    Email: hospitals@ahca.myflorida.com




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












