



































Clearinghouse Renewals | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Clearinghouse Renewals












Home




Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Background Screening



Clearinghouse Renewals












  Clearinghouse Renewals
Per Florida Statute, retained fingerprints must be renewed  every 5 years  in order to maintain eligibility for employment.  To  maintain the retention of fingerprints within the Clearinghouse the employer  must request a Clearinghouse Renewal through the Clearinghouse Results Website  (CRW) prior to the retained prints expiration date.  By initiating a  Clearinghouse Renewal through the CRW, the current fingerprints retained on  file at the Florida Department of Law Enforcement will be resent to the Federal  Bureau of Investigation allowing for an updated criminal history to be  processed by the Clearinghouse.  If the employer does not initiate a  Clearinghouse Renewal an employee’s prints will no longer be retained, the  employee’s eligibility determination will expire, and the employee will have to  be re-fingerprinted at a Livescan Service Provider at an increased cost to  comply with background screening requirements.
Providers may initiate a Clearinghouse Renewal 60 days  before the Retained Prints Expiration Date is reached. If the Clearinghouse  Renewal is not initiated before the retained prints expiration date a new  screening will need to be initiated in the Clearinghouse and the employee will  have to be fingerprinted again.
Employers will receive notification of upcoming expiring  retained prints for those employees listed on the Employee/Contractor Roster.
The benefits of  initiating Clearinghouse Renewals are:

Request and pay for the renewal of a screening all in one system while also receiving cost       savings.
Faster processing time       since the request is immediately sent to the Clearinghouse. No need to wait for the employee to be fingerprinted at a Livescan Service Provider.
An updated criminal       history to ensure compliance with background screening requirements.
Extend the retained prints expiration by another 5 years.
The        current cost for a Clearinghouse Renewal is $43.25. That's a cost-saving        of over $30 with the average cost for a new screening being $75.00!

 
Clearinghouse Renewals Instruction Guide & FAQs



    Clearinghouse Renewals User  Guide


    [
                    
                1.1 MB
    ]






    Clearinghouse Renewals FAQs


    [
                    
                485.7 kB
    ]



Clearinghouse Renewals Frequently Asked Questions

1. What  is a 'Clearinghouse Renewal?'

Florida  Statute requires care providers to undergo another criminal history check once  every five years from the date of the retention of their fingerprints. The  process of extending the retention is called a ‘Clearinghouse Renewal.

2. What is a 'Retained Print' (RP)?

The term,  'Retained Prints' (RP) refers to the fingerprints that FDLE retains when an  individual undergoing screening agrees to make their background information  shareable among the seven State Agencies specified by section 435.12, Florida  Statutes to participate in the Clearinghouse. Fingerprints began being retained  January 1, 2013.

3. What is the 'Retained Prints expiration  date?' 

The  Retained Prints (RP) expiration date refers to the calendar day that FDLE will  purge the prints from their storage if the employee does not have a  Clearinghouse Renewal requested.  Prints  are retained for 5 years unless they are renewed or purged. Once the prints  have been purged, there is no grace period, and the employee will have to have  a whole new screening.  The retained  prints expiration date is located on the Person Profile page above the  Eligibility section.




4. Does  the Clearinghouse Results Website offer renewal screenings?

Yes, providers can initiate five-year renewal screenings through the Clearinghouse for employees who are eligible for renewal.

5. When can I renew?

Providers may initiate a Clearinghouse Renewal starting 60 days before the Retained Prints Expiration Date is reached. If the Clearinghouse Renewal is not initiated before the retained prints expiration date a new screening will need to be initiated in the Clearinghouse and the employee will have to be fingerprinted again.

6. How will the provider know when it is  time to renew an employee's screening?

There are  two new features in the Clearinghouse Results Website (CRW) designed to let  provider's know when it is time to renew an employee's screening. Both  features depend on the employee being listed in the provider's Employee/Contractor  Roster:

Retained Print Expiration Table –starting 60 days from an employee's RP expiration date,  a record will appear in the provider's RP expiration table on the home page in  CRW that shows their expiration date. Each employee's name in the table is a  hyperlink to their person profile, from which users can request a renewal  screening.
Provider Renewal Notifications – at 60, 30, and 21 days before the employee's RP  expiration date, the system will send notifications to the provider that remind  the provider that it is time for a renewal screening, if the employee is on the  Employee/Contractor roster without an end date.


7. Why is the Employee Roster so important  for renewal screenings?

The  Clearinghouse system will notify the employer of upcoming expirations of  retained prints only for those employees that are listed on the  Employee/Contractor Roster.It is  imperative that the employer adds all current employees to their Employee/Contractor  Roster to receive important notifications including  Arrest notifications and Expiring Retained prints notifications.

8. How  does the provider request a renewal screening?

A  Clearinghouse Renewal can be initiated and paid for through the Clearinghouse  Results Website. 

9. My  employee's eligibility determination date is not 5 years old so why am I  receiving notification of their prints expiring?

The  eligibility determination date is the date of the last eligibility  determination made for the individual in the Clearinghouse. The RP expiration  date is the day the fingerprints will no longer be retained by FDLE. The two  dates can differ by as much as 5 years, depending on the volume of screenings  or interest a person carries. The RP expiration date can only be changed by  either a Clearinghouse Renewal or a brand new screening and is the date used in  determining when a new screening is required.

10. What's the difference between a renewal and a resubmission?

A  resubmission is the process of running a new national criminal history check  for the purpose of having an updated screening for those individuals with a  lapse of employment greater than 90 days.   The resubmission screening does NOT extend the RP expiration date. 

11. Does my employee have to re-sign/resubmit the Privacy  Policy and/or the Attestation of Compliance?

No, the employee does not have to resubmit either the Privacy Policy or the  Attestation of Compliance.  Per section 59A-35.090(2)(d)  2, F.A.C., the attestation must be signed upon hire and stored in the employee's  personnel file.  The Privacy Policy only  needs to be signed the first time an employee receives a Clearinghouse  screening and stored in the employee's personnel file.









                        Background Screening
                    





                                Additional Information
                            



                                Clearinghouse
                            



                                Clearinghouse Renewals
                            



                                Livescan
                            



                                Screening
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












