


































Statewide Medicaid Managed Care | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Statewide Medicaid Managed Care












Home




Medicaid



Statewide Medicaid Managed Care











Welcome to Statewide Medicaid Managed Care!Medicaid is the medical assistance program that provides access to health care for low-income families and individuals.  Medicaid also assists the elderly and people with disabilities with the costs of nursing facility care and other medical and long-term care expenses.In Florida, the Agency for Health Care Administration (Agency) is responsible for Medicaid.  The Agency successfully completed the implementation of the  Statewide Medicaid Managed Care (SMMC) program in 2014.  Under the SMMC program, most Medicaid recipients are enrolled in a health plan.  Nationally accredited health plans were selected through a competitive procurement for participation in the program.The Agency for Health Care Administration is responsible for administering the Statewide Medicaid Managed Care (SMMC) program.  Most Florida Medicaid recipients are enrolled in the SMMC Program. The SMMC program has three components, the Long-Term Care (LTC) program, the Managed Medical Assistance (MMA) program, and the Dental Program.









































Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












