


































MMA Physician Incentive Program (MPIP) - Year 3 | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










MMA Physician Incentive Program (MPIP) - Year 3: Rollout - September 30, 2019












Home




Medicaid




Statewide Medicaid Managed Care




MMA Physician Incentive Program (MPIP)




MMA Physician Incentive Program Archive



MMA Physician Incentive Program (MPIP) - Year 3












*Rollout dates: December 1, 2018; January 1, 2019; February  1, 2019 (dates vary by regions)
Physicians qualified to participate in the MMA Physician  Incentive Program (MPIP) are the physician types listed below who meet  plan-specific access and quality criteria. Year 3 of MPIP eliminated the  requirement for board certification and continues to include Primary Care  Physicians, OB/GYNs, and Pediatric Specialists servicing patients 21 years of  age or younger.

MPIP  Covered Physician Types:


Pediatric Primary Care Physicians (including General  Practitioners and Family Practitioners)
OB/GYNs
Specialist Physicians for all services provided to enrollees  under the age of twenty-one (21) years.





    MPIP Year 3 Plan Program Summary


    [
                    
                794.4 kB
    ]





MPIP  Year 3: Qualified Providers

Below is a list of Primary Care  Physicians and OB/GYNs by name, reported by the plans to the Agency, who meet  MPIP Year 3 qualifying criteria prior to the implementation date. All  specialist physicians serving members under the age of 21 qualify for the MPIP  program and will not be listed on the Qualified Providers list. Specialists are  encouraged to work with their respective health plans to submit claims for the  MPIP enhanced rates when providing services to members under the age of  21.  Qualified providers will begin to receive enhanced rates for dates of  service beginning on or after the implementation date.
 During each year of MPIP, plans are required to reassess  physician eligibility for the program six months after implementation. For MPIP  Year 3, plans will be required to reassess physician eligibility for enhanced  rates for dates of service beginning on or after the regions’ respective  rollout dates. This reassessment will occur halfway between a region’s rollout  date and September 30, 2019.  This allows  providers who become qualified after the implementation date a second  opportunity to become eligible for MPIP.   The Year 3 qualified provider list, available at the link below, will be  updated after each reassessment.

    MPIP  Year 3 Qualified Providers List:  Rollout - September 30, 2019


    [
                    
                919.9 kB
    ]

 
If you are a provider contracted with a health plan to  provide services and you feel that your name was omitted from the Qualified  Providers List in error, please contact the plan directly. Plan contact  information for providers can be found at the link below.Health Plan Contacts for Providers
 For additional  information on types of physicians excluded from the MMA Physician Incentive  Program, please click the link below.Excluded  Providers
MPIP Year 3: Included  Services and Enhanced Payments

Pediatric Primary Care Physicians and Obstetricians/Gynecologists

The included services to qualify  for enhanced payments for Pediatric Primary Care Physicians and  Obstetricians/Gynecologists are the following:
- All services provided to  recipients under the age of 21 years by a qualified primary care physician;
- All OB/GYN services  rendered to pregnant women
Pediatric  SpecialistsIncluded  services are all medically necessary pediatric specialist services provided to  recipients under the age of 21 years.
Enhanced PaymentPayment to a qualified provider for included services  will be equivalent to the Medicare Specific Locality fee-for-service rate that  is in effect as of January 1, 2019, when a Medicare rate is available for the  code associated with the included service.  Payments to qualified  providers may be made either through a capitated arrangement or on a  fee-for-service arrangement, as defined by the health plan.
NOTE – The enhanced rates for included services are  calculated by health plans, according to Medicare rates, effective October 1,  2019.
For pediatric evaluation and management codes  included in the file at the following link, the 2019 Medicare Rates in the  Excel file must be used for enhanced payments.


    
        MPIP Rates for Children’s Primary Care Codes
      


    [
                    
                37.8 kB
    ]

 
For codes without rates published on First Coast’s  website but that have Medicare Relative Value Units (RVUs), the rate  calculation methodology below (as published by the Centers for Medicare &  Medicaid Services at https://www.cms.gov/Medicare/Medicare-Fee-for-Service-Payment/PhysicianFeeSched/PFS-Relative-Value-Files.html)  must be used.
2019 Non-Facility Pricing Amount =                   [(Work  RVU * Work GPCI) +   (Non-Facility PE RVU * PE GPCI) +  (MP RVU * MP GPCI)] * Conversion Factor (CF)
2019 Facility Pricing Amount =   [(Work RVU * Work GPCI) +   (Facility PE RVU * PE GPCI) +  (MP RVU * MP GPCI)] * Conversion Factor (CF)
For MPIP included service codes that do not have a  Medicare equivalent and for which RVUs = 0, the managed care plan must use the  following formula:
Florida Medicaid rate x 1.6667 = Medicare equivalent  rate*
                 *this Medicare equivalent rate must be reduced by the 2% sequestration.

Vaccine Administration Services Codes – MPIP Rates

Code
Description
Maximum Fee * 

90460
Administration of first vaccine/toxoid through 18 years of age, via any  route, with counseling.
$24.01

+90461
Administration of vaccine/toxoid component through 18 years of age with  counseling.
$12.00

90471
Administration of one vaccine, single or combination vaccine/toxoid.  (percutaneous, intradermal, subcutaneous or intramuscular).
$24.01

+90472
Administration of each additional vaccine, single or combination  vaccine/toxoid.  (percutaneous, intradermal, subcutaneous or  intramuscular).
$12.00

90473
Immunization administration by intranasal or oral route of one vaccine,  single or combination vaccine/toxoid.
$24.01

+90474
Administration of each additional intranasal or oral vaccine (single or  combination vaccine/toxoid).
$12.00

Program Documents 



    Attachment 2: Florida Medicaid Cesarean Rate Calculation


    [
                    
                321.4 kB
    ]



 Attachment  6: Florida Managed Medical Assistance Physician Incentive Program (MPIP) Rate Calculation Guidance 


Program History
   MPIP  Year 1: 2016 – 2017   
    MPIP  Year 2: 2017 – 2018   









                        MMA Physician Incentive Program (MPIP)
                    





                                Agency MPIP Model 2023-2024
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












