



































Screening Information | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Screening Information












Home




Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Background Screening




Screening



Screening Information












Screening Information
The Background Screening Unit reviews the Level 2 criminal history results for all background screenings submitted as part of the
  employment process for a health care provider and/or for participation as a provider in the Florida Medicaid program. All screenings
  that are received for employment purposes in an AHCA regulated facility are reviewed in accordance with Chapter 435 and section
  408.809(4), Florida Statutes, and Rule 59A-35.090 and any screenings done for Medicaid are reviewed in accordance with Chapter
  435, section 408.809(4) Florida Statutes, and Rule 59A-35.090 in order to make an eligibility determination.
All screenings must be initiated in the Clearinghouse by an approved provider. Any provider that needs a screening performed for
  initial facility licensure purposes must first submit their application to the appropriate licensure unit before they can gain access to
  the Clearinghouse. Any provider that needs a screening performed for their initial Medicaid Provider Enrollment application must first
  submit their application and receive their Application Tracking Number (ATN) before they can gain access to the Clearinghouse.
  Evidence of screening must be retained in the personnel files for those screened. Contractor screenings may be retained either by
  the employer or the licensee where the contractor provides contract services. A copy of the Florida Public Rap Sheet is available to all providers who initiate a screening through the Clearinghouse.
Level 2 screening records are confidential and may not be shared with anyone other than the individual that was screened. If
  additional information is needed, AHCA will contact the person screened through certified mail, based on the address submitted
  to FDLE, which will delay the processing of the screening. The employer should contact the person screened if delays exist.
  Please be advised that it can take between 24 to 72 business hours for the Livescan service vendor to transmit the fingerprints to
  the Florida Department of Law Enforcement (FDLE).


Please note the Background Screening Units average processing times for reviewing these screenings is 5 to 7
  business days once the results are received from FDLE.


All persons required to be screened must be screened and eligible before they are hired to work in a position that requires a Level
  2 background screening. However, an employer may hire an employee to a position that requires background screening before the
  employee completes the screening process for training and orientation purposes. The employee may not have direct contact with
  vulnerable persons until the screening process is completed and the employee demonstrates that he or she exhibits no behaviors
  that warrant the denial or termination of employment.
If an employer becomes aware that an employee/contractor has been arrested for a disqualifying offense, the employer must
  remove the employee/contractor from contact with any vulnerable person that places the employee/contractor in a role that
  requires background screening until the arrest is resolved in a way that the employer determines that the employee/contractor is
  still eligible for employment/contracting under this chapter. Providers are required to make any changes to their rosters within 10
  business days of any changes in employment.
Not all criminal offenses are disqualifying. An individual may have a criminal history record and still be ‘Eligible’. The Florida Department of Law Enforcement (FDLE) provides public access to Florida criminal history information.  Please visit http://www.fdle.state.fl.us for additional information. 









                        Screening
                    





                                Exemption from Disqualification:
                            



                                Who is Required to be Screened?
                            



                                Screening Information
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












