


































Adopted Rules - Main Page | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Adopted Rules - Main Page












Home




Medicaid




Rules



Adopted Rules - Main Page












Adopted Rules

General Policies

Rules that are universally applicable to the Florida Medicaid program.

Service-Specific  Policies

Rules for individual Florida  Medicaid covered services and waiver programs.

Reimbursement Policies

Rules pertaining to  submitting claims for reimbursement  and  reimbursement methodologies.

Fee Schedules

Florida Medicaid fees schedules and billing codes

Other Policies

Rules pertaining to other  aspects of the Florida Medicaid program.

Florida Medicaid Forms

Forms pertaining to the Florida Medicaid program.
 
 









                        Rules
                    





                                Adopted Rules
                            



                                Adopted Rules - General Policies
                            



                                Adopted Rules - Main Page
                            



                                Adopted Rules - Other Policies
                            



                                Adopted Rules - Reimbursement Policies
                            



                                Adopted Rules - Service Specific Policies
                            



                                Historical Medicaid Reimbursement Schedules
                            



                                Rule 59G-4.002, Provider Reimbursement Schedules and Billing Codes
                            



                                Rules in Process
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












