



































Livescan Service Provider Information | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Livescan Service Provider Information












Home




Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Background Screening




Livescan



Livescan Service Provider Information












Livescan Service Provider Information
All Level 2 screening requests must be submitted  electronically.
There are many Livescan sites available around the state from service providers listed on the FDLE site - some who offer mobile services  for onsite screening. We have requested information from each of these  service providers regarding their location, hours of operation, and fees and compiled a chart based on the information provided. This list is  continuously updated and reported within the Clearinghouse results website.  For more information,  visit the FDLE site.
Livescan devices (machines) may  be purchased/leased by providers who wish to handle their own fingerprint  capture. Several businesses offer machines (sale or lease) however, it is  important to assure that any selection is approved for submission through FDLE  and all requirements of fingerprint submission are met. For more information,  visit the FDLE site.









                        Livescan
                    





                                Livescan Service Provider Information
                            



                                Livescan Vendor Page
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












