


































Livescan Vendor Page | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Livescan Vendor Page












Home




Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Background Screening




Livescan



Livescan Vendor Page












Livescan Vendor Page
Thank you for serving as a Livescan  vendor for health care employees and providers. All screenings for specified agencies in the Care Provider Background Screening Clearinghouse, or  Clearinghouse, must be submitted electronically either through Livescan or  scanning a hard card (converting the card to an electronic submission to FDLE). Useful information and requirements for  Livescan vendors and providers can be found below.
Background Screening Clearinghouse Requirements for Livescan  Vendors
Florida House  Bill 943 created a “Care Provider Background Screening Clearinghouse” or  “Clearinghouse.” The purpose of the Clearinghouse is to provide a single data  source for background screening results of persons required to be screened by  law for employment in positions that provide services to children, the elderly,  and disabled individuals. The Clearinghouse shall allow the results of criminal  history checks to be shared among specified agencies when a person has applied  to volunteer, be employed, be licensed, or enter into a contract that requires  a state and national fingerprint-based criminal history check. (Section 435.12,  Florida Statutes).
To comply with these  requirements the Agency for Health Care Administration (Agency) in consultation  with the Department for Law Enforcement (FDLE) has developed the Clearinghouse  system. This system and associated  services are maintained by the Agency.
The  implementation of the Clearinghouse has impacted the business process and  requirements for Livescan Vendors   Service Providers providing services to employees and providers of the Clearinghouse. Specifically, Livescan service locations must have the ability to communicate electronically with the state agency accepting screening results from the FDLE and provide a photograph of the applicant taken  at the time the fingerprints are submitted. (Section 435.04(1)(e), Florida  Statutes).
If you are not  already a photo capable and clearinghouse compliant Livescan location but wish to continue providing services to employees and providers of the Clearinghouse  there are two options listed below.
Option 1.  Develop and implement  a direct connection to the Clearinghouse (through the Agency) in order to  transmit applicant data and photographs. The Clearinghouse Livescan Web Service (LSWS) High-Level Design Document  will aid interested vendors in the implementation of the LSWS. 


    Clearinghouse LSWS High-Level Design Document


    [
                    
                675.4 kB
    ]

  Updated: October 17, 2016
Option 2.Purchase  equipment and software from an established Livescan vendor. There are several vendors from which the  software may be purchased, however the Agency does not recommend or endorse any  specific vendor. To view a list of  vendors in the State of Florida please visit the FDLE website. The vendors listed here may or may not have  photo software available for purchase.
Clearinghouse Screening  Process and ORI Numbers
Providers submit electronic prints to  the Florida Department of Law Enforcement (FDLE) for processing (typically  through a vendor).  The fingerprint submission must be accompanied by the  information listed below. Failure to submit this information may result in the
  provider’s inability to obtain screening results:
Full NameAddress (the individual’s address is needed for the Agency to make contact if necessary)Social Security Number (or  Tax ID Number. Section 435.04(1)(e))Date of BirthRaceSexHeightWeightHairColorEye ColorPlace  of BirthEmployer NameEmployer Address    Screening ORI Number
 A list of active ORI numbers for specified agencies in the Clearinghouse can be found here:


    Clearinghouse ORI Listing


    [
                    
                17.1 kB
    ]

  Updated: November 27, 2018
 This  information is available directly from the Clearinghouse system to Livescan  vendors and Livescan providers that have developed a direct connection or  purchased compliant software. It is also  available on the ‘Livescan Request Form’ which is given to potential employees  for the requesting provider.     




    Sample Livescan Request Form


    [
                    
                113.1 kB
    ]


AHCA  Provider Numbers
The Agency has asked the providers, third party vendors and  health care contractors requesting a screening for AHCA purposes to provide an AHCA # when submitting a screening.  This helps the Agency identify the potential employer in the event we need to  communicate an employee’s disqualification.


    AHCA Provider List


    [
                    
                3.3 MB
    ]

 >
    
The above link will take you to downloadable spreadsheet  containing the “AHCA #” for each licensed health care and durable  medical equipment provider, initial applicants to the Agency and health  care contractors that may send individuals to Livescan sites for Level 2  screenings for the Agency for Health Care Administration.

Medicaid providers and providers for other specified agencies do not have an  AHCA #.

Thank you again for working with us. If you have any questions please contact our office at (850) 412-4503 or email BGScreen@ahca.myflorida.com.









                        Livescan
                    





                                Livescan Service Provider Information
                            



                                Livescan Vendor Page
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












