



































Certificate of Need (CON) Program Overview | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Certificate of Need (CON) Program Overview












Home




Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Certificate of Need and Commercial Managed Care Unit



Certificate of Need (CON) Program Overview












Certificate of Need (CON) Program  Overview
The Certificate of Need program is a regulatory process that requires certain health care providers to obtain state approval before offering certain new or expanded services.   The CON program currently regulates hospices, freestanding inpatient hospice facilities, skilled nursing facilities and intermediate care facilities for the developmentally disabled. It does not regulate outpatient services, home health services, purchases of major medical equipment, assisted living facilities, and hospitals.
There are four CON batching cycles a year - two for Hospice and two for Nursing Homes and ICF/DDs. Most projects are reviewed on a competitive batching cycle review basis, and a letter of intent must be filed with the CON Office at least 30 days before an application is filed.  A letter of intent is not required for projects that will be given a non-competitive, expedited review.
Public hearings may be held on a CON application if requested by an applicant or a substantially affected party. CON decisions are rendered 60 days after an application is declared complete by the Agency. Notices of hearings, decisions and other actions regarding CON that are required by law are published in the Florida Administrative Register. Applicants or other affected parties may appeal a decision of the Agency according to the provisions of Rule 59C-1.012, Florida Administrative Code,  Section 408.039(5) and (6)  Florida Statutes (F.S.) and Chapter 120, F.S. 

The CON Office monitors implementation of an approved project until it is licensed.  CONs that were approved with conditions are monitored every year to assure that the required services are being provided.
Any questions regarding whether a project is subject to CON review or the CON process may be sent to  James McLemore or call at 850-412-4401.
Media Relations Contact for Reporters:Reporters are asked to contact the Agency's Media Relations Unit for information on CON applications, decisions, or any other Certificate of Need related issue at 850-412-3623.
Notices/Updates

Hospice utilization reports for the six months ending June 30 and December 31 are due on or before July 20 of each year and January 20 of the following year as required by Rule 59C-1.0355(8) F.A.C.


Nursing homes, hospices and ICF/DDs continue to require condition compliance if applicable. Condition compliance reports for the preceding year are due on April 1st of the following year. 










                        Certificate of Need (CON) Program Overview
                    





                                Application
                            



                                Calendars
                            



                                Certificate of Need (CON) Exemption Requests
                            



                                Certificate of Need Competitive Review-Batching Cycles 2024
                            



                                Certificate of Need Publications
                            



                                Certificate of Need Rules
                            



                                CON Implementation and Monitoring
                            



                                Expedited Certificate of Need (CON) Applications
                            



                                Fixed Need Pool Publications
                            



                                Letters of Intent
                            



                                Notifications Submitted to the Certificate of Need Program
                            



                                Service Area Maps
                            



                                Who's Who in Certificate of Need (CON)
                            













                                            James
                                                                McLemore
                                                                
                        OMC Manager
                                    

Certificate of Need and Commercial Managed Care Unit
Bureau of Health Facility Regulation
2727 Mahan Drive, MS #28
Tallahassee, FL 32308
                                                    Phone: (850) 412-4401

                    Email: CON-CMCU@ahca.myflorida.com
Florida Relay Services (TDD): (800) 955-8771





















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












