


































Medicaid Retroactive Eligibility | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Medicaid Retroactive Eligibility












Home




Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Policy and Quality




Medicaid Policy




Program Policy




Eligibility for Medicaid Services



Medicaid Retroactive Eligibility












Medicaid  Retroactive Eligibility
Retroactive eligibility allows a person  applying for Medicaid to obtain Medicaid coverage prior to the month they  applied.  The retroactive period is up to  90 days prior to the month the Medicaid application is received by the  Department of Children and Families.


 What  has changed? 


The  three-month Medicaid retroactive eligibility period for

adults (except those who are pregnant) aged 21 years and older has ended.


This change is the result of legislative direction in the codified in the General  Appropriations Act.


 When did the  change in retroactive eligibility start? 


The change is effective February 1, 2019. 


 What stays the  same? 


Eligibility will continue to begin the first day of the month in which an  application is received from an individual applying for Florida Medicaid who meets  all eligibility requirements.
Pregnant women and children under 21 years of age will continue to have  access to retroactive eligibility.
Medicaid services will stay the same. There are no changes to Medicaid  benefits for eligible persons.


    
        Retroactive Eligibility Important Reminder
      


    [
                    
                129.8 kB
    ]


NEW











                        Eligibility for Medicaid Services
                    





                                Medicaid Retroactive Eligibility
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












