


































Florida Medicaid Preferred Drug List (PDL) | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Florida Medicaid Preferred Drug List (PDL)












Home




Medicaid




Prescribed Drugs




Medicaid Pharmaceutical & Therapeutics Committee



Florida Medicaid Preferred Drug List (PDL)











Florida Medicaid Preferred Drug List (PDL)The Florida Medicaid Preferred Drug List is subject to revision following consideration and recommendations by the Pharmaceutical and Therapeutics (P&T) Committee and the Agency for Health Care Administration.The Changes Summary Report lists only changes made to the Preferred Drug List as a result of the P&T Committee meeting on March 22, 2024.  It does not include changes made between meeting dates.  Always refer to the Preferred Drug List document for the most current list of preferred drugs.

    Changes Summary Report


    [
                    
                126.8 kB
    ]

 Effective 4/1/2024The  Preferred Drug List is was updated from the March 22, 2024, P&T Committee meeting. Open the attached list and use the Adobe Acrobat search tool to locate specific drugs by name or HIC3 therapeutic class. Please read the first page for important additional information.

    Preferred Drug List


    [
                    
                2.5 MB
    ]

 Effective 4/1/2024Important information regarding quantity and/or age limits for various drugs may be found at the following link:

    Summary of Drug Limitations


    [
                    
                1022.6 kB
    ]

 7/2/2024.The Quick Reference Guide for Physician Administered Preferred Drugs below includes preferred products from the March 22, 2024, P&T Committee meeting of physician administered drug billing codes and quantities effective January 1, 2023. Visit the Provider Reimbursement Schedules and Billing Codes Page for the complete list of covered Prescribed Drugs Physician Administered Billing Codes.

    Quick Reference Guide


    [
                    
                203 kB
    ]

 Effective 4/1/2024The fee-for-service Fee Schedule Look-Up Tool, located on the Fiscal Agent's website is available to view provider reimbursement rates for HCPCS codes.Fee Schedule Look-Up Tool  









                        Medicaid Pharmaceutical & Therapeutics Committee
                    





                                Florida Medicaid Preferred Drug List (PDL)
                            



                                Pharmacy Prior Authorization Forms
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












