



































Care Provider Background Screening Clearinghouse (Clearinghouse) | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Care Provider Background Screening Clearinghouse (Clearinghouse)












Home




Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Background Screening




Clearinghouse



Care Provider Background Screening Clearinghouse (Clearinghouse)












Care Provider Background Screening Clearinghouse (Clearinghouse)
Clearinghouse Results Website 
To implement the Clearinghouse, the Agency has begun rolling out  enhancements to the Clearinghouse results website in a multi-phase  project.   Important updates about the  progress of the Clearinghouse implementation will be posted on this page.
The Clearinghouse results website can be accessed at https://apps.ahca.myflorida.com/SingleSignOnPortal.
To All Health Care Providers:
We  recommend that you frequently review employee eligibility on the website. Daily  updates to the website might change an individual's eligibility to work for a  health care provider.
Clearinghouse General Information
Changes in law passed during the 2012 legislative session significantly  modifies background screening for many service providers regulated by a variety  of state agencies including health care providers licensed by the Agency for  Health Care Administration (Agency) under Chapter 408, Part II, Florida  Statutes (F.S.).
House Bill 943 created a “Care Provider Background Screening  Clearinghouse” or “Clearinghouse.” The purpose of the Clearinghouse is to  provide a single data source for background screening results of persons  required to be screened by law for employment in positions that provide  services to children, the elderly, and disabled individuals. The Clearinghouse  shall allow the results of criminal history checks to be shared among specified  agencies when a person has applied to volunteer, be employed, be licensed, or  enter into a contract that requires a state and national fingerprint-based  criminal history check. (Section 435.12, Florida Statutes).









                        Clearinghouse
                    





                                Care Provider Background Screening Clearinghouse (Clearinghouse)
                            



                                Instruction Guides
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












