



































Pediatric Cardiac Technical Advisory Panel | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Pediatric Cardiac Technical Advisory Panel












Home




Agency Administration




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Data Dissemination and Transparency



Pediatric Cardiac Technical Advisory Panel















Section 395.1055(10), F.S., previously s. 395.1055(9) F.S., was last amended in 2019. The Pediatric Cardiac Technical Advisory Panel (PCTAP) was originally established in 2017 through Ch. 151, L.O.F., and assigned to the Agency. The Panel was charged to develop procedures and standards for measuring outcomes of pediatric cardiac catheterization and surgery programs; and to make recommendations to the Agency for rules that implement those standards.The Panel members are pediatric cardiac specialists and surgeons appointed by the state’s ten existing licensed hospital-based pediatric cardiac surgery programs, along with three at-large representatives appointed by the Agency Secretary.Laws of Florida (L.O.F.):Chapter 2019-138, Laws of FloridaChapter 2018-24, Laws of FloridaChapter 2017-151, Laws of FloridaFlorida Statutes (F.S.):s. 20.052, F.S., Advisory bodies, commissions, boards; establishment.Member Appointment Process and QuestionnaireIt is the responsibility of the CEO for each of the state's ten existing licensed hospital-based pediatric cardiac surgery programs to timely appoint or reappoint members to the panel, to direct them to complete in its entirety the Member Appointment Questionnaire, and to submit to the Agency all new appointee information via  PCTAP@ahca.myflorida.com.Contact UsFor advisory council comments and questions, please use the PCTAP Contact Form.









                        Pediatric Cardiac Technical Advisory Panel
                    





                                Panel Members
                            



                                Meeting Dates and Information
                            



                                Media Resources
                            



                                Annual Reports
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












