


































Inspection Reports for Health Care Providers | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Inspection Reports for Health Care Providers












Home




Health Care Policy and Oversight



Inspection Reports for Health Care Providers











Find Inspection Reports The Agency for Health Care Administration's Division of Health Quality Assurance is responsible for the licensure and regulation of health care providers. Health care providers are routinely inspected to ensure the provider is operating in compliance with applicable Florida Statutes, Florida Administrative Code and applicable federal regulations, in a manner that protects the health and safety of their residents or patients.During an inspection Agency surveyors review a sampling of clinical records, policies and procedures, staffing reports and other relevant documents. They also conduct interviews with patients/residents, family members, staff, visitors, and/or volunteers. The Agency may also perform an investigation in response to a complaint.If a violation of a regulation is found during an inspection or investigation, it is cited as a deficiency on the Statement of Deficiencies.The two forms used to document deficiencies (violations) found during an inspection or investigation is called the     




    Statement of Deficiencies (Form 2567)


    [
                    
                45.8 kB
    ]

 for federal regulations and     




    Statement of Deficiencies (Form 3020-0001)


    [
                    
                30.3 kB
    ]

 for state regulations. These forms document each deficiency and in many cases, the steps the health care provider is taking to correct the deficiencies.Each regulation is assigned a tag number, followed by a summary of the requirement and details of why this requirement was not met. The prefix of a tag denotes a federal health related regulation from state regulations, and each provider type has a different set of tags.When a regulation is cited as a deficiency it may also have a classification to indicate the severity of the deficiency. Class is defined differently for different provider types. The following is a list of provider types that classify deficiencies and the authorizing statute or rule:Assisted Living Facilities - 429.19, Florida StatutesHome Health Agencies - 400.484(2), Florida StatutesNurse Registry - 400.484(2), Florida StatutesAdult Family Care Home - 429.71, Florida StatutesAdult Day Care Centers - 58A-6.014(1), Florida Administrative CodeHome Medical Equipment - 59A-25.005(3), Florida Administrative CodeIntermediate Care Facilities - 400.967(3), Florida StatutesNursing Homes - 400.23(8), Florida StatutesAdditionally, nursing home federal deficiencies are given a     




    scope and severity


    [
                    
                80 kB
    ]

.

    Inspection Reports Frequently Asked Questions


    [
                    
                193.7 kB
    ]

NOTICE: This site provides inspection results. Before penalties for a deficiency are imposed, a licensee has the opportunity to contest Agency findings. The licensee may disagree with the Agency over the facts or law reported in the statement of deficiencies. Information available on this site should be interpreted carefully and used in conjunction with other sources of information. When considering a facility or health care service provider please also view consumer brochures and guides available from the Agency.









                        Inspection Reports for Health Care Providers
                    





                                Survey Type Definitions
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












