



































Florida Health Information Exchange | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Florida Health Information Exchange












Home




Agency Administration




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Health Information Exchange and Policy Analysis



Florida Health Information Exchange















AboutThe Florida Health Information Exchange (Florida HIE) has been facilitating the secure exchange of health information through several services between health care providers, hospital systems, and payers.The Agency for Health Care Administration governs the Florida HIE by setting policy, convening stakeholders, providing oversight, engaging Federal partners, and promoting the benefits of health information technology. Audacious Inquiry, a PointClickCare Company, contributes innovative technology and strategic insight, and manages the day-to-day operations of the Florida HIE.For more information about the Florida HIE, visit www.florida-hie.net.ServicesThe Encounter Notification Service (ENS) provides participating subscribers with timely notice of patients' hospital encounters. This service offers the opportunity for subscribers to better engage in care coordination and ensure that patients receive proper follow-up care.Patient Record Exchange (PRE)Patient Record Exchange (PRE), a method of health information exchange (HIE), is a service that enables providers the ability to search for a patient’s health information across one or many clinical data sources. Provider searches can be conducted locally, statewide, and nationally. When possible, the Florida HIE recommends health care organizations connect to national exchanges (eHealth Exchange, Carequality, Commonwell) directly or through regional/enterprise HIEs.



The eHealth Exchange, a founding member of the Sequoia Project, is a network that enables exchange of health care information among its Participants. More specifically, eHealth Exchange is not a repository of health care data but, instead, is simply a secure conduit for exchange among Participants.  The eHealth Exchange connectivity spans across all 50 states and is now the largest health data sharing network, or HIE, in the United States. Florida participants work together to support best practices, organizational connectivity, and standards development.



Commonwell Health Alliance is a vendor-neutral platform that enables health care practitioners, from single physician offices to multi-hospital system to share patient data.



Carequality, an interoperability framework utilized by electronic health record (EHR) vendors to connect providers with s a diverse group of existing networks. This enables data to ﬂow between and among disparate networks, platforms, and geographies.ResourcesFor more information about the Florida HIE, visit www.florida-hie.net.









                        Office of Health Information Exchange and Policy Analysis
                    





                                Florida Health Information Exchange
                            



                                Emergency Patient Look-Up System (E-PLUS)
                            



                                Privacy Regulations
                            



                                PHR Toolkit
                            



                                Florida Electronic Prescribing (ePrescribing) Clearinghouse
                            



                                Patient Safety Culture Survey (PSCS)
                            



                                Committees and Councils
                            



                                Untangling HIE in Florida Educational Series
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












