



































PHR Toolkit | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










PHR Toolkit












Home




Agency Administration




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Health Information Exchange and Policy Analysis



PHR Toolkit











PHR ToolkitBeing prepared with a personal health record (PHR) can offer you and your family greater security, peace of mind, and many other benefits during an emergency situation, such as a hurricane. A PHR can serve as a convenient medical resource at any time.A PHR is any organized system you maintain for documenting personal information, health conditions, medicines, health care providers, medical procedures, medical test results, and special needs. There are free forms available as well as other products for purchase that can help you create a PHR for yourself and your family. There are two basic types of PHRs; paper documents and files that are best maintained in waterproof and portable containers, and electronic PHRs. If you are using an electronic PHR system, it is important that you read and understand the privacy policies.Check ListYou can create your own PHR by listing the information on paper or using your computer. The PHR checklist is designed to help you identify and keep track of important health-related information. You can use this list to collect health records for yourself and your family. Florida law allows you to obtain copies of all of your medical records from every physician who treats you. By using this PHR checklist, you can ensure that you have a complete record of you and your family's health history. Here is some additional info on Personal Health Record Check List.Using the InternetAn electronic PHR system stores your information on a secure Internet web site where you set up a password to prevent unauthorized access to your information. You type in information on the form provided and print as needed. In some cases, the PHR system may contain data from your health plan or doctor. Your Internet PHR would be available to you if you have access to the Internet, wherever you are relocated in an emergency. Check to be sure that the PHR system gives you the ability to copy your record to another device so you can carry it with you, in case of an emergency or for other purposes.Privacy and SecurityIt is important that you read and understand the privacy policies of the PHR you are using on the Internet. You want to be sure that your information cannot be retrieved or used by any person or organization you do not want to have access to it. You also need to understand exactly what happens to your information if you decide to close your account. You should maintain legal ownership of your information. Ask whether you will be notified of any changes in privacy policies and review any changes you do receive.Tips for Disaster PreparationElectronic PHRs are a great tool for disaster planning. They store your health information for easy access in case of emergencies like tropical storms or other events that can cause loss of power and/or the need for relocation.     




    Tips for using Personal Health Records for Hurricane and Other Disaster Preparation


    [
                    
                26 kB
    ]

.









                        Office of Health Information Exchange and Policy Analysis
                    





                                Florida Health Information Exchange
                            



                                Emergency Patient Look-Up System (E-PLUS)
                            



                                Privacy Regulations
                            



                                PHR Toolkit
                            



                                Florida Electronic Prescribing (ePrescribing) Clearinghouse
                            



                                Patient Safety Culture Survey (PSCS)
                            



                                Committees and Councils
                            



                                Untangling HIE in Florida Educational Series
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












