



































Evidence Versus Eminence | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Evidence Versus Eminence












Home




Let Kids Be Kids



Evidence Versus Eminence
















Evidence Based StudiesThe Agency’s report attaches five expert reports from subject-matter experts, including health care researchers who studied the quality of the evidence relied upon for “gender affirming" care.  Links to their reports are below along with quotations from their key findings.


 Romina Brignardello-Petersen, DDS, MSc, PhD 
        (clinical epidemiology and health care research) &
           Wojtek Wiercioch, MSc, PhD 
        (health care research) -
              




    AHCA Brignardello-Petersen Report


    [
                    
                2.7 MB
    ]



 James Cantor, Ph.D. 
        (psychology) -
              




    AHCA Cantor Report


    [
                    
                655.1 kB
    ]



 Quentin Van Meter, MD  
        (pediatric endocrinology) -
              




    AHCA Van Meter Report


    [
                    
                125.6 kB
    ]



 Patrick Lappert, MD  
        (plastic surgery) -
              




    AHCA Lappert report


    [
                    
                215.9 kB
    ]



 G. Kevin Donovan, MD, MA 
        (pediatrics and bioethics) -
              




    AHCA Donovan report


    [
                    
                232.1 kB
    ]



 “We found low and very low certainty evidence suggesting improvements in gender dysphoria, depression, anxiety, and quality of life, as well as low rates of adverse events, after treatment with puberty blockers and cross-sex hormones.” 
        (page 4)

 “There is very low certainty about the effects of puberty blockers on suicidal ideation.” 
        (page 3)

 “Due to the important limitations in the body of evidence, there is great uncertainty about the effects of puberty blockers, cross-sex hormones, and surgeries in young people with gender dysphoria.” 
        (page 5)

 “The research importantly distinguishes completed suicides—which occur primarily in biological males and involve the intent to die—from suicidal ideation, gestures, and attempts—which occur primarily in biological females and represent psychological distress and cries for help. The evidence is minimally consistent with transphobia being the predominant cause of suicidality. The evidence is very strongly consistent with the hypothesis that other mental health issues, such as Borderline Personality Disorder (BPD), cause suicidality and unstable identities, including gender identity confusion.” 
        (page 3)

 “The international consensus of public health care services is that there remains no evidence to support medicalized transition for youth. The responses in the U.S. stand in stark contrast with Sweden, Finland, France, and the United Kingdom, which are issuing increasingly restrictive statements and policies, including bans on all medical transition of minors.” 
        (page 3)

 “The affirmation advocates repeatedly refer to the established increased risk of suicide if any of the affirmation strategies are not followed to completion. They point to their own published studies touting dramatic improvement in mental health status of patients who are affirmed in all three ways, but they cite data from convenience sampling, which never should be used to prove anything other than association, at best.  Such studies can never prove causation.” 
        - (page 9)

 “The claim is made that chest masculinization has proven benefit in reducing dysphoria and the associated risk of suicide. But published studies that make this claim of benefit offer evidence that is low to very low quality.” 
        (page 4)

 “Until we can demonstrate the efficacy and safety of any proposed treatment or intervention, its usage must properly be considered a medical experimentation and require fully informed consent. Anything less is a betrayal of both our principles and our progeny.” 
        (page 7)










                        Let Kids Be Kids
                    





                                Additional Resources
                            



                                Evidence Versus Eminence
                            



                                Setting the Record Straight
                            



                                Social Media's Influence on Gender Dysphoria
                            



                                Treatment by State and Country
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












