



































Setting the Record Straight | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Setting the Record Straight












Home




Let Kids Be Kids



Setting the Record Straight

















Setting the Record StraightThe report is in follow up to the Florida Department of Health’s April 20, 2022 guidance[  ] detailing the lack of conclusive evidence in recent directives and “fact sheets” issued by the US Department of Health and Human Services for the coverage of “gender affirming” care, for children and adolescents.






 

    FLFactCheck.pdf


    [
                    
                4.2 MB
    ]





 

    FLFactCheck.pdf


    [
                    
                4.2 MB
    ]

 


EMINENCE:
All medical experts agree on that "gender affirming" care is medically necessary, effective, and safe to alleviate gender dysphoria.

EVIDENCE:
The evidence suggesting improvements in gender dysphoria, depression, anxiety, quality of life, and low rates of adverse events, after treatment with puberty blockers and cross-sex hormones is low and very low certainty. 



EMINENCE:
Using cross-sex hormones is safe and the physical changes are completely reversible.

EVIDENCE:
Cross-sex hormonal treatments create changes in body, face, voice tone, and hair development that are irreversible.



EMINENCE:
Puberty blockers are not harmful, and their effects are easily reversible. Using puberty blockers will “buy time” for minors who are questioning their gender.

EVIDENCE:
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has not approved any medication that is clinically indicated for the treatment of gender dysphoria.  There is     




    no evidence


    [
                    
                125.6 kB
    ]

 of the long-term effects of puberty blockers on sexual function.  Sex hormones also have an important and lasting effect on brain development and adolescent psychology.











                        Let Kids Be Kids
                    





                                Additional Resources
                            



                                Evidence Versus Eminence
                            



                                Setting the Record Straight
                            



                                Social Media's Influence on Gender Dysphoria
                            



                                Treatment by State and Country
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












