



































Social Media's Influence on Gender Dysphoria | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Social Media's Influence on Gender Dysphoria












Home




Let Kids Be Kids



Social Media's Influence on Gender Dysphoria















 The Agency's evidence-based studies of the from subject-matter experts, discusses the influence of social media platforms on gender dysphoria, particularly rapid onset gender dysphoria among children:Adolescents who had no history of displaying typical gender dysphoria characteristics go through a sudden change in identity following intense exposure to peers and/or media that heavily promotes transsexual lifestyles. -     




    AHCA Report page 5


    [
                    
                2.5 MB
    ]

Considering that social media is rife with individuals promoting gender affirmative drugs and surgeries, children are making self-assessments based on feelings they may not understand and believing they require treatments that can lead to deep regret in the future. -     




    AHCA Report page 30


    [
                    
                2.5 MB
    ]

It is that feature which led to the term Rapid Onset Gender Dysphoria (ROGD). The majority of cases appear to occur within clusters of peers and in association with increased social media use and especially among people with autism or other neurodevelopmental or mental health issues. -     




    AHCA Cantor Report page 19


    [
                    
                655.1 kB
    ]

It is that feature which led to the term Rapid Onset Gender Dysphoria (ROGD). The majority of cases appear to occur within clusters of peers and in association with increased social media use and especially among people with autism or other neurodevelopmental or mental health issues. -     




    AHCA Cantor Report page 19


    [
                    
                655.1 kB
    ]











                        Let Kids Be Kids
                    





                                Additional Resources
                            



                                Evidence Versus Eminence
                            



                                Setting the Record Straight
                            



                                Social Media's Influence on Gender Dysphoria
                            



                                Treatment by State and Country
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












