



































Statewide Provider and Health Plan Claim Dispute Resolution Program FAQ | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Statewide Provider and Health Plan Claim Dispute Resolution Program FAQ












Home




Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Certificate of Need and Commercial Managed Care Unit




Commercial Managed Care



Statewide Provider and Health Plan Claim Dispute Resolution Program FAQ











Statewide Provider and Health Plan Claim Dispute Resolution Program Frequently Asked Questions1. What is the Statewide Provider and Health Plan Claim Dispute Resolution Program (Dispute Resolution Program)?The Dispute Resolution Program is a statutorily created program to assist health care providers and health insurance plans resolve health care claims disputes.  Capitol Bridge is the Agency's contracted independent dispute resolution organization who serves as the arbitrator of claims disputes between the health care providers and health insurance plans. The program provides a lower cost dispute resolution option to formal litigation.2. Which regulations govern the Statewide Provider and Health Plan Claim Dispute Resolution Program? Florida Statute 408.7057 and Florida Administrative Rule 59A-12.030.3. Who can file a request for claims dispute resolution services under this program?Providers of health care services that have filed a claim with a health insurance plan including physicians, hospitals, health care institutions (e.g. nursing homes), and other Florida licensed health care providers.Health insurance plans including HMOs, Prepaid Health Clinics, Prepaid Health Plans, and Exclusive Provider Organizations (EPOs) regulated by the State of Florida.4. Is health plan or provider participation in the program mandatory?The program is not mandatory but provides a path to dispute resolution in lieu of formal litigation.  However, once a provider requests arbitration services related to a Statewide Managed Care (SMMC) claim dispute, the SMMC contracted plan must participate in the arbitration process. Once both parties agree to participate, the decision is binding. 5. Are there minimum thresholds that must be met in order to qualify for the program?Yes, to utilize the Dispute Resolution Program, health care providers must have aggregate claim disputes (for 1 or more patients for same insurer) by type of service that meet minimum thresholds:Type of ServiceMinimum ThresholdsHospital Inpatient Claims (contracted providers)$25,000Hospital Inpatient Claims (noncontracted providers)$10,000Hospital Outpatient Claims (contracted providers)$10,000Hospital Outpatient Claims (non-contracted providers)$3,000Professional Services$500Rural HospitalsNoneOther ProvidersNone6. How do health care providers and health plans contact the Statewide Provider and Health Plan Claim Dispute Resolution Program Capitol Bridge?Capitol Bridge can be reached at FLCDR@capitolbridge.com or by calling (800) 889-0549.7. What claim disputes are eligible to be heard by the Statewide Provider and Health Plan Claim Dispute Resolution Program?Claim disputes for services rendered after October 2, 2000 (effective date of the authorizing statute) and claim disputes related to payment amount (amount received or reimbursed amount).  Claims must have been denied (in full or in part) or allegedly underpaid or overpaid.8. What types of claims WILL NOT be heard by the Statewide Provider and Health Plan Claim Dispute Resolution Program?Claim disputes related exclusively to late paymentClaims related to interest paymentsClaims that are part of an open internal grievance in a Medicare Managed Care organization or that qualify for a Medicare reconsideration appealClaims related to a health plan that is not regulated by the State of FloridaClaims disputes that are filed by a provider who is not licensed in the State of FloridaClaims that are a part of a Medicaid fair hearingClaims dispute that are the basis for an action pending in state or federal courtClaim dispute filed more than 12 months after the final determination by provider or health planClaim disputes that are subject to an internal binding managed care organization’s resolution process for contracts entered into prior to October 1, 2000.9. Who handles complaints for late payment of claims?Complaints for late claim payments regarding commercial managed care plans should be addressed to the Florida Department of Financial Services.  The Florida Department of Financial Service can be reached at (800) 342-2762.Complaints for late claim payment regarding Medicaid managed care plans should be addressed to the Agency for Health Care Administration, Division of Medicaid.  A Medicaid representative can be reached at (877) 254-1055 or a complaint can be filed online at https://ahca.myflorida.com/Medicaid/index.shtml.10. When filing a claim dispute with the Statewide Provider and Health Plan Claim Dispute Resolution Program, do I need to let the affected party know?The filing party has to submit a copy of all documentation to the adversely affected party at the same time as submitting to the resolution organization pursuant to 59A-12.030, F.A.C.  11. How long is the review process with Statewide Provider and Health Plan Claim Dispute Resolution Program (Capitol Bridge)?The resolution organization Capitol Bridge has 60 days to make a recommendation to the Agency after receipt of the appropriate forms and documentation. Capitol Bridge has the right to request additional documentation from both parties. The total review time shall not exceed 90 days following receipt of the initial claim dispute request.12. How long does it take for a final order to be issued?The Agency has 30 days to issue a final order based upon the date of receipt of the recommendation made by the resolution organization.13. Is the final order subject to judicial review?The final order is subject to judicial review pursuant to s. 120.68, F.S.14. How much does it cost to utilize the claims dispute resolution services? The resolution organization and the Agency have agreed by contract to the following fee schedule:No.Service/Position TitleRate1.Initial Review Fee to Determine Eligibility$85.00/ Flat Fee (Per Dispute)2.Physician Expert Review$235.00/hr.3.Utilization Review Nurse$100.00/hr.4.Medical Claim Coding Expert$130.00/hr.5.Legal Expert$175.00/hr.Since each claim dispute is different and of varying complexity, the resolution organization will not be able to estimate the full cost in advance; however, the filling party will be provided a review cost estimate in advance, if requested, at no additional charge beyond the initial review fee.15. What method of payment does Capitol Bridge accept?The initial review fee must be paid electronically through the Capitol Bridge payment portal. Capitol Bridge only accepts debit/credit card payments for the initial fee. A small transaction fee is charged when submitting this payment.The Full Review invoice cost must be paid through an Automated Clearing House (ACH) payment. The invoice will have all the necessary information to facilitate an ACH payment. 16. Who should pay for witnesses?Each party must pay for their own witnesses.17. Can either party request an evidentiary hearing?Either party may request that the resolution organization conduct an evidentiary hearing in which both sides can present evidence and examine witnesses.18. When can an evidentiary hearing be requested?An evidentiary hearing may be requested at any point following the determination that a claim dispute is eligible for arbitration.19. Is there a cost associated with an evidentiary hearing?The costs associated with the evidentiary hearing are determined by the Capitol Bridge upon receiving a request to file a hearing.20. How will the evidentiary hearing be held?The evidentiary hearing will be managed by telephonic hearing process. The resolution organization will utilize a Hearing Coordinator to manage the telephonic hearing process.21. Can either party make an offer to settle the claim dispute prior to the issuance of the final order?Yes, either party may make an offer to settle the claim dispute at any time during the claim dispute process.









                        Commercial Managed Care
                    





                                Statewide Provider and Health Plan Claim Dispute Resolution Program
                            



                                Commercial Health Maintenance Organizations (CHMOs)
                            



                                Exclusive Provider Organizations (EPOs)
                            



                                Statewide Provider and Health Plan Claim Dispute Resolution Program FAQ
                            



                                Health Care Provider Certificate Process
                            



                                Health Flex Plan Program
                            



                                Workers' Compensation Managed Care Arrangements (WCMCA)
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












