


































Compliance Reporting and Claims/Encounter Support | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Compliance Reporting and Claims/Encounter Support












Home




Medicaid




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Medicaid Fiscal Agent Operations



Compliance Reporting and Claims/Encounter Support












Compliance Reporting and Claims/Encounter Support
Monitor and contract  compliance reporting of all phases of the Medicaid fiscal agent’s operations.  Provide claims/encounter research, technical  assistance and issue resolution.

Medicaid Fiscal Agent Contract Compliance  Reporting
Monitor Fiscal Agent Operations
Claims  Support
Encounter  Support
Develop  performance standards, report card items and performance measurement reporting  tools. Review and approve scoring for monthly report cards.  These standards are based on the requirements  in the fiscal agent Medicaid Contract. 
Daily  evaluation of fiscal agent operations, including:  researching issues  reported by providers, area office staff and headquarters staff; reviewing the  inventory and status of suspended claims; reviewing the inventory and status of  claims in mailroom.
Provide  research and technical support for claims inquiries and processing issues.
Provide  research and technical support for encounter inquiries and processing  issues.  Coordinate issues resolution  through the Agency and the Fiscal Agent.   Conduct encounter outreach and training workshops.










                        Medicaid Fiscal Agent Operations
                    





                                Medicaid Fiscal Agent
                            



                                Compliance Reporting and Claims/Encounter Support
                            



                                DSS/Data Warehouse
                            



                                Special Projects/Project Management and Provider Publications
                            



                                Provider Enrollment
                            



                                Recipient File Management
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












