


































DSS/Data Warehouse | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










DSS/Data Warehouse












Home




Medicaid




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Medicaid Fiscal Agent Operations



DSS/Data Warehouse












DSS/Data Warehouse
The Florida Medicaid Data Warehouse/Decision  Support System (DSS), is a relational database and consists of a suite of  software tools used by authorized State employees to extract and/or analyze  Medicaid data. Some tools are used for ad-hoc querying by accessing the data  warehouse directly, while other tools allow users to import extracted Medicaid  data and perform analysis on that data. The data in the DSS is updated weekly  from the Florida Medicaid Management Information System (FMMIS) and contain 7  years of paid claims data and various support files.
Florida Medicaid DSS
This section  monitors the Decision Support System (DSS) portion of the fiscal agent contract  to ensure system availability, access and accuracy for authorized State  users.  The DSS staff also assists users  with building ad hoc queries, customized reports and large data extracts.









                        Medicaid Fiscal Agent Operations
                    





                                Medicaid Fiscal Agent
                            



                                Compliance Reporting and Claims/Encounter Support
                            



                                DSS/Data Warehouse
                            



                                Special Projects/Project Management and Provider Publications
                            



                                Provider Enrollment
                            



                                Recipient File Management
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












