


































Recipient File Management | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Recipient File Management












Home




Medicaid




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Medicaid Fiscal Agent Operations



Recipient File Management












Recipient File Management
The  Recipient File Management Unit (RFMU) updates recipient data in the Florida  Medicaid Management Information System (FMMIS).   RFMU performs required file maintenance on a daily basis.  Each unit works cooperatively since all  recipient data is related and is co-mingled in  FMMIS.   Recipients can be eligible for Medicare and SSI, for example.   Units “share” recipients but perform different file  updates and monitor processes related to their functional unit. The section is  comprised of three smaller functionally defined units:

Recipient
Buy-In
MediKids
The Medicaid recipient file in FMMIS is updated with data files from the  Florida Department of Children and Families (DCF) and the Social Security  Administration (SSA). The Recipient Uni
           t 
        maintains  integrity of recipient eligibility data in  FMMIS and provides oversight of  Medicaid fiscal agent recipient file management activities and fiscal agent performance.
Buy-In is the process by  which Medicaid pays the Part A and/or Part B premium for Medicare recipients.  The RFMU Buy-In Unit maintains integrity of  Buy-In data in FMMIS and provides oversight of Medicaid fiscal agent Buy-in  activities and fiscal agent performance.
MediKids is the KidCare  health insurance program for children ages 1 through 4. MediKids eligibility  and managed care enrollment information is maintained in FMMIS. The RFMU  MediKids Unit maintains integrity of MediKids eligibility information in FMMIS  with data coming from the KidCare third party administrator and the Agency’s  managed care enrollment broker.










                        Medicaid Fiscal Agent Operations
                    





                                Medicaid Fiscal Agent
                            



                                Compliance Reporting and Claims/Encounter Support
                            



                                DSS/Data Warehouse
                            



                                Special Projects/Project Management and Provider Publications
                            



                                Provider Enrollment
                            



                                Recipient File Management
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












