


































Special Projects/Project Management and Provider Publications | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Special Projects/Project Management and Provider Publications












Home




Medicaid




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Medicaid Fiscal Agent Operations



Special Projects/Project Management and Provider Publications












Special Projects/Project Management and Provider Publications
The Special Projects/Project Management and Provider  Publications is responsible for:

Ensure       compliance of the Florida Medicaid Management Information System (FMMIS)       with federal and state regulations; develop federal Advance Planning       Documents (APD) to receive approval for Medicaid system projects and       enhanced federal funding, and develop state Legislative Budget Requests       (LBR) for fiscal agent projects.
Assist       in the planning and development of the Agency’s initiatives as related to       Medicaid law and policy, including Health Information Technology       Initiatives.
Apply       Project Management Office (PMO) structure to mandated special projects,       including:
Advise       Medicaid management of mandates and funding needs.
Editing       provider publications, direct and monitor Fiscal Agent distribution       of provider publications.
Coordinating,       directing, and monitoring publication of the Provider Web Portal.
Medicaid Information Technology Architecture (MITA),        the federal initiative for promoting improvements in the Medicaid        enterprise and systems.
Continued coordination of the implementation of Health        Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) transaction        and code set changes as they are developed and mandated for        implementation by providers, health plans and payers. 










                        Medicaid Fiscal Agent Operations
                    





                                Medicaid Fiscal Agent
                            



                                Compliance Reporting and Claims/Encounter Support
                            



                                DSS/Data Warehouse
                            



                                Special Projects/Project Management and Provider Publications
                            



                                Provider Enrollment
                            



                                Recipient File Management
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












