


































FHURS | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










FLORIDA HOSPITAL UNIFORM REPORTING SYSTEM












Home




Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Financial Analysis




Hospital Financial Data Florida Hospital Uniform Reporting System (FHURS)



FHURS











FLORIDA HOSPITAL UNIFORM REPORTING SYSTEMFHURS Online Web-Based ApplicationThe prior year actual report must be submitted to the Agency electronically using the web-based application known as FHURS Online. FHURS Online is an application for the reporting of hospital prior year reports beginning with the FY 2018 reports. All revisions to prior year reports must also be submitted using the new system.How to File a Prior Year Actual ReportUsers of the new system must create an Agency Single Sign On (SSO) account if they do not already have one. Users can then access the FHURS Online portal registration through their SSO account. Users will need to create a portal account before requesting access to FHURS Online. Users will also need to submit a user agreement for every hospital for which you will be filing. Once registered users will have access to the new system. Please refer to the     




    FHURS Online User Guide


    [
                    
                1.1 MB
    ]

 for instructions on how to use the FHURS web-based application. Also, please refer to the     




    FHURS Online Portal Registration


    [
                    
                971.6 kB
    ]

 to set up a new account.Important Tips for Using FHURS Online ApplicationPlease refer to the     




    FHURS User Guide


    [
                    
                1.8 MB
    ]

 for detailed instructions. With the new system you will be able to attach your audited financial statements and a signed Worksheet A. In addition, there is a new section allowing easier reconciliations from the FHURS report to the audited financial statements. Questions concerning financial reporting issues or the FHURS Online system should be directed to Mills Smith, Unit Manager, at (850) 412-4353, or to the e-mail address: robert.smith@ahca.myflorida.com. Please note: We will not be able to open any encrypted e-mails. Any prior year actual report documents submitted using encrypted e-mail will not be considered received by the agency. Questions concerning financial reporting issues or the FHURS Online program should be directed to Mills Smith, Unit Manager, at (850) 412-4353, or to the e-mail address: robert.smith@ahca.myflorida.com.









                        Hospital Financial Data Florida Hospital Uniform Reporting System (FHURS)
                    





                                FHURS
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












