


































About the Secretary | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










About the Secretary












Home




Agency Administration



About the Secretary











About the Secretary



Jason WeidaJason Weida is Secretary at the Agency for Health Care Administration (AHCA). Previously, he served as Chief of Staff at the Agency, where he coordinated Medicaid and health care regulation policy with other state agencies, the legislature, and the federal government. Secretary Weida also served as the Assistant Deputy Secretary for Medicaid Policy & Quality at AHCA, where he was responsible for the development, coordination, and implementation of Medicaid policy, and oversaw the quality of Florida’s Medicaid program.Before his time at AHCA, Jason Weida served as a lawyer in the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), where he was an Assistant U.S. Attorney in Boston, Massachusetts, and a counsel in DOJ’s Office of Legal Policy in Washington, DC. In his roles at DOJ, he coordinated closely with law enforcement partners, including the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Drug Enforcement Administration. He has overseen numerous investigations and led trial teams in a range of litigation matters, including jury trials. Specific to healthcare, he oversaw drug diversion investigations of doctor’s offices, pharmacies, and hospitals. In one matter, he led a year-long investigation of a Massachusetts hospital and its head pharmacist. Jason also defended the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) in several healthcare litigation matters, including regulatory challenges, Medicare appeals, and medical malpractice claims against federally funded community health centers and officers in the Commissioned Corp of the U.S. Public Health Service who serve in agencies across the federal government. He also defended the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs in medical malpractice actions against providers.Jason Weida has extensive experience working on Article III judicial nominations. In 2018, he served on a secondment to DOJ’s Office of Legal Policy (OLP) to assist in the confirmation of Judge Brett M. Kavanaugh to be as Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. For his role, in 2019, he received the Attorney General’s Award for Distinguished Service, DOJ’s second-highest award for employee performance. In 2019, he served on a detail to OLP, where he worked on policy initiatives and judicial nominations.Before entering public service, Jason Weida practiced law at Jones Day and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP. He earned a B.A., magna cum laude with Departmental Honors, from Gettysburg College in Pennsylvania and a J.D., with Honors, from the University of Connecticut School of Law. He is an Eagle Scout.









                        Agency Administration
                    





                                About the Secretary
                            



                                Chief of Staff Office
                            



                                Information Technology Office
                            



                                Office of Inspector General
                            



                                Office of the General Counsel
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












