


































Chief of Staff Office | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Chief of Staff Office












Home




Agency Administration



Chief of Staff Office












The Chief of Staff's Office coordinates Medicaid and Health Care Regulation policy with other state agencies, the legislature and the federal government.  The office also contains Legislative  Affairs, Communications,  Information Technology,  and the Governor's Washington D.C. Office.
The Office of Legislative Affairs serves as the primary liaison to members of the Florida Legislature and their staff for items related to the creation or interpretation of legislation and the resolution of constituent concerns.

Committee Presentations
Legislative Summaries
Legislative Affairs Staff

The Office of Communications provides accurate and timely information about Agency programs and priorities. It is responsible for responding to press inquiries, managing correspondence, coordinating internal communications and also oversees multimedia design, a full-service design, print and video production unit.

Press Releases
Social Media
Public Records
Multimedia Design
Communications Staff










                        Chief of Staff Office
                    





                                Office of Communications
                            



                                Office of Legislative Affairs
                            













                                            Stefan
                                                                Grow
                                                                
                        Chief of Staff
                                    

2727 Mahan Drive, Mail Stop #2
Tallahassee, FL 32308


 


















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












