



































Division of Operations | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Division of Operations












Home




Agency Administration



Division of Operations












The Bureau of Financial Services is responsible for paying vendors, reimbursing state travelers, receiving payments from facilities for fee and fines, distributing the Agency’s monthly financial reports, maintaining accounting data, managing grants, submitting various federal grants reports and administering the Agency’s purchasing card program. The Budget Services unit manages budget related activities for the Agency which include the development of the Agency’s Legislative Budget Request, monitoring appropriations, position and rate ledger and other budget related reports.


    AHCA Tax Exempt Form


    [
                    
                2 MB
    ]


To contact Financial Services, please call (850) 412-3858.
Human Resources is responsible for Labor Relations, Training, Classification and Recruitment, and Attendance, Benefits and Compensation.
To contact Human Resources, please call (850) 412-3900.
The Bureau of General Services provides general services support to the Agency’s staff at Headquarters and the Field Offices.  The bureau administers Continuity of Operations, Safety, Security, Facilities Management, Facilities Leasing, Records Management, Mail Services, and Policy and Forms Management.
To contact General Services, please call (850) 412-3888.
The Bureau of Purchasing and Contract Administration oversees the Agency’s purchasing activities, competitive solicitations, contract administration and MyFloridaMarketPlace administration.

To view the Agency’s active and closed solicitations, please visit the
          Vendor Bid System (VBS).

To view the Agency’s contracts and purchase orders, please visit the
          Florida Accountability Contract Tracking System (FACTS).


To contact Purchasing and Contract Administration, please call (850) 412-3902.
The Office of Information Technology oversees the Agency's use of existing and emerging technologies in government operations, and its delivery of services to the public.  The Office works to improve efficiency by aligning business and technology objectives.
The Office of FX administers the FX Program to transform the way we serve our customers. The Office works closely with other Agency divisions to strategically improve efficiency and align business and technology objectives.
For more information on the FX Program click here.









                        Agency Administration
                    





                                About the Secretary
                            



                                Chief of Staff Office
                            



                                Information Technology Office
                            



                                Office of Inspector General
                            



                                Office of the General Counsel
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












