



































Birth Center | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Birth Center












Home




Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Hospital & Outpatient Services Unit



Birth Center











Birth CenterA birth center is a licensed facility that is not an ambulatory surgical center, hospital or located within a hospital where births are planned to occur (following a normal, uncomplicated, low-risk pregnancy) away from the mother’s usual place of residence.Notices/UpdatesReminder: Licensed birth centers must submit an annual report using the Agency’s online Birth Center Annual Reporting (BCAR) system no later than July 30 each year.  Please see the Birth Center Annual Report section below for details.Licensure RequirementsFacilities must meet license requirements through the submission of a completed application, required documentation, and completion of satisfactory licensure and life safety surveys.Initial ApplicationThis includes new facilities and reactivation of an expired license.  At least 60 days before the effective date, an applicant must submit a licensure application, fees, and supporting documents.  When all required information is received and acceptable, licensure and life safety surveys will be scheduled.  A license will be issued when documentation of successful licensure and life safety surveys are complete and filed.  Note: A valid license is required before services can be provided.RenewalThe licensure application, renewal fee, and supporting documents must be submitted to the Agency 120 to 60 days prior to the expiration date. A late fee of $50 per day, up to 50% of the licensure fee or $500 (whichever is less), will be assessed for any application not received 60 days prior to expiration. A renewal application will not be accepted if the license is expired. An initial license application must be filed if the license has expired. Renew Online – All renewal applicants must apply online by submitting the online licensure application, fees, and supporting documents electronically through the Agency's Online Portal.Change of Ownership (CHOW)Chapter 408.803, Florida Statutes defines "Change of ownership" as: an event in which 51 percent or more of the ownership, shares, membership, or controlling interest of a licensee is in any manner transferred or otherwise assigned. This does not apply to a licensee that is publicly traded on a recognized stock exchange. Also, a change solely in the management company or board of directors is not a change of ownership.The licensure application, fee, and supporting documents (see application checklist) must be submitted at least 60 days prior to the change of ownership. Before the application can be approved, any outstanding fees owed the State (owed by either party) must be paid and a bill of sale or other closing document signed by the buyer and the seller and showing the effective date of the transfer must be received by the Agency.Other Change During the Licensure PeriodA change of physical address requires submission of an AHCA Form 3130-3001. Other documents that may be required include AHCA Form 3100-0008 and documentation verifying the applicant’s right to occupy the premises at the new address (i.e. warranty or quit claim deed; lease or rental agreement.)Online Licensure - In addition to submitting license renewal applications online, licensees may also submit changes during the licensure period. Changes to the fictitious name, address, and personnel can be submitted by going to the online portal and creating a new application.  Contact the licensure unit for additional information.Voluntary Termination of a LicenseA licensee must inform the agency not less than 30 days prior to the discontinuance of operation and comply with the requirements listed in Chapter 408.810(4), Florida Statutes. The Birth Center Annual Report must be submitted prior to the termination date of the license.Accreditation RequirementsAccreditation is voluntary. Accredited birth centers meeting Rule 59A-11.004(4), Florida Administrative Code, may be "deemed" to be in compliance with the licensure requirements. Deemed birth centers are not scheduled for routine on-site licensure surveys, although periodic Life Safety Code inspections are still required. Facilities must provide a complete copy of the most recent survey report indicating continuation as an accredited facility in lieu of inspections. The survey report should include correspondence from the accrediting organization containing:The beginning and expiration dates of the survey,The accreditation status,Any citations to which the accreditation organization requires a response,A response to each citation,The effective date of accreditation, andAny follow up reports.Pursuant to section 383.325, Florida Statutes, this report will become part of the facility file maintained by our office and therefore will be considered public record.  Facilities no longer accredited or granted accreditation status other than accredited or fail to submit the requested documentation will be scheduled for annual licensure surveys to be conducted by Agency field office staff.Statutory Authority: Section 408.811(2), Florida StatutesAccrediting OrganizationWeb AddressDeemed for State LicensureAccreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC)http://www.aaahc.org/YesCommission for the Accreditation of Birth Centers (CABC)https://birthcenteraccreditation.org/YesThe Joint Commission (TJC)http://www.jointcommission.org/YesApplications and FormsForm NumberNameForDescriptionAHCA Form 3130-3001Online LicensureBirth Center Health Care Licensing Application All application typesStandard birth center application required to apply for or modify a birth center license.Providers can use online licensure to submit renewal and change during licensure applications.AHCA Form 3110-1024Application AddendumInitialRenewalCHOWPlease provide this information to comply with the reporting requirements of Chapter 408, Part II, Florida Statutes. Use of the form is not required if the same information is provided by other means. Business ArticlesInitialCHOWArticles of Incorporation or similarly titled document as filed with the Florida Department State. Proof of Right to Occupy PremisesInitialCHOWChange of AddressAny documentation verifying the applicant’s right to occupy the premises at the physical address of the birth center (i.e. warrant or quit claim deed; lease or rental agreement). Compliance With Zoning RequirementsInitialCHOWChange of AddressAny documentation from a local government identifying the facility is in compliance with local zoning requirements. Certificate of OccupancyInitial due to new construction.Change of address due to new construction.Specific documentation from a local government granting the right to occupy a facility. Management AgreementInitialCHOW(if applicable)Contract between the owner and a management company for management of services. Closing DocumentCHOWBill of sale or similar document signed by the buyer and the seller indicating the date of transfer of ownership. Statement of Outstanding DeficienciesCHOWStatement from the buyer assuring any uncorrected licensure survey deficiencies will be corrected timely. Statement of Outstanding PaymentsCHOWStatement from the buyer identifying any outstanding balance owed AHCA, and indicating who will pay and when.AHCA Form 3130-3003

    Birth Center Consent Form


    [
                    
                20.9 kB
    ]

Facility RecordsForm for each patient to sign consenting to deliver in a birth center. Licensure FeesFee TypeAmountWho PaysDueInitial, renewal or CHOW Application$392.80ApplicantWith application.Survey Fee(Annual licensure inspection fee $250 and annual life safety inspection fee $250.)$500ApplicantFor initial applications, fee is to be submitted with the application.For renewal applications, fee is to be submitted upon written notification from the Agency advising the survey has been scheduled and the fee is due.Late Application$50 per day, up to 50% of the licensure fee or $500 (whichever is less)All late applicationsIf an application is not received at least 60 days prior to the anticipated effective date. Payment can be made any time during the application process or upon issuance of a final order.Birth Center Annual Report (BCAR)Section 383.327, Florida Statutes requires each birth center to submit an annual report to the Agency as prescribed by Agency Rule 59A-11.019, Florida Administrative Code. Reports must be submitted through the Agency's online Birth Center Annual Reporting (BCAR) system. Annual reports must be submitted to the Agency no later than July 30 each year.Links to the BCAR online system, reporting system guide, and related questions and answers are below:BCAR Online System via the AHCA Portal login

    BCAR System Guide


    [
                    
                3 MB
    ]



    Registration Notification including Questions and Answers


    [
                    
                307.5 kB
    ]

Notification of Disposition of Fetal RemainsThis form provides the procedures for notification of options available to a mother who has experienced a spontaneous fetal demise of less than 20 weeks gestation. This form is to be used by hospitals and birth centers and is similar to a Department of Health form that would be used by health care practitioners. The form is required by section 383.33625, F.S., the Stephanie Saboor Grieving Parents Act, and section 59A-3.281, F.A.C.

    Disposition of Fetal Remains Form - AHCA Form 3100-006


    [
                    
                54.6 kB
    ]

Background ScreeningA level 2 background screen is required of the administrator responsible for the day to day operations of the facility and the chief financial officer. Please visit the Agency's background screening web page for additional information regarding vendors, fees, locations etc. Background screens must be repeated every 5 years.Department of Health Approval for Onsite Sewage Disposal SystemsDepartment of Health approval is required for onsite sewage disposal systems regulated by Chapter 64E-6, F.A.C. Please visit the Department of Health’s Onsite Sewage Programs webpage and select the Interagency Coordination Regarding Regulated Establishments[  ] link. The approval form is at the end of the document.Statute/Rule AuthoritySections 383.30 - 383.332, F.S. Chapter59A-11, F.A.C.Chapter 408, Part II, F.S. Chapter 59A-35, F.A.C.Top









                        Hospital & Outpatient Services Unit
                    





                                Abortion Clinic
                            



                                Ambulatory Surgical Center
                            



                                Birth Center
                            



                                Civil Rights Information
                            



                                Comprehensive Outpatient Rehabilitation Facility (CORF)
                            



                                Crisis Stabilization Units
                            



                                Hospitals
                            



                                Diagnostic Imaging Centers
                            



                                Community Mental Health Centers / Partial Hospitalization Programs (CMHC/PHP)
                            



                                Rehabilitation Agencies
                            



                                Reports
                            



                                Residential Treatment Facilities
                            



                                Residential Treatment Centers for Children and Adolescents
                            



                                Rural Health Clinics
                            



                                Portable X-ray
                            



                                Health Care Clinics
                            













                                            Jack
                                                                Plagge
                                                                
                        Manager | Hospital & Outpatient Services Unit
                                    

Bureau of Health Facility Regulation
2727 Mahan Drive, Mail Stop #53
Tallahassee, Florida 32308
                                                    Phone: (850) 412-4549

                    Email: hospitals@ahca.myflorida.com




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












