



































Residential Treatment Centers for Children and Adolescents | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Residential Treatment Centers for Children and Adolescents












Home




Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Hospital & Outpatient Services Unit



Residential Treatment Centers for Children and Adolescents











Residential Treatment Centers for Children and AdolescentsResidential Treatment Centers for Children and Adolescents (RTC) are 24-hour residential programs, including therapeutic group homes, licensed by the Agency. These centers were designed to provide mental health treatment and services to children under the age of 18 who have been diagnosed as having mental, emotional, or behavioral disorders.NOTE: An RTC operating as a Therapeutic Group Home is limited to 12 beds per Rule 65E-9, F.A.C. An RTC operating as a Community Residential Home is limited to 7 to 14 beds per Chapter 419, F.S.Health Facility Reporting System



The Agency for Health Care Administration (Agency) requires all licensees providing residential or inpatient services to use an Agency approved database for reporting its emergency status, planning or operations. The Agency approved database for reporting this information is the Health Facility Reporting System (HFRS).Notices/UpdatesOnline Applications – Applicants applying for initial licensure and active providers reporting changes may submit applications through the AHCA Portal. An application for license renewal must be submitted through the AHCA Portal. Contact the licensure unit for additional information.Posters available online - The Department of Children and Families has two posters available online for RTCs to meet the requirements of Section 394.875(8)(b), F.S. 1. For youth 12 and under.[  ]2. For youth ages 13-17.[  ]Licensure RequirementsFacilities must meet license requirements through the submission of a completed application, required documentation, and satisfactory completion of a licensure survey.  Initial ApplicationThis includes new facilities and reactivation of an expired license.  At least 60 days before the effective date, an applicant must submit a licensure application, fees and supporting documents.  When all required information is received and acceptable, a licensure survey will be scheduled.  A license will be issued when documentation of a successful licensure survey is complete and filed.  Note: A valid license is required before services can be provided.RenewalRenew Online - All renewal applicants must apply online by submitting the online licensure application, fees, and supporting documents electronically through the Agency's Online Portal. The licensure application, renewal fee and supporting documents must be submitted to the Agency 120 to 60 days prior to the expiration date. A late fee of $50 per day, up to 50% of the licensure fee or $500 (whichever is less) will be assessed for any application not received 60 days prior to expiration. If a renewal application is pending approval after the license expiration date, the license status will be changed to "In Review" and the RTC may continue to operate. An RTC must cease operation if the license expires and a renewal application is not under review. A renewal application will not be accepted if the license is expired. An initial license application must be filed if the license has expired. Change of Ownership (CHOW)Chapter 408.803, Florida Statutes defines "Change of ownership" as: an event in which 51 percent or more of the ownership, shares, membership, or controlling interest of a licensee is in any manner transferred or otherwise assigned. This does not apply to a licensee that is publicly traded on a recognized stock exchange. Also, a change solely in the management company or board of directors is not a change of ownership.The licensure application, fee and supporting documents (see application checklist) must be submitted at least 60 days prior to the change of ownership.  Before the application can be approved, any outstanding fees owed the State (owed by either party) must be paid and a bill of sale or other closing document signed by the buyer and the seller and showing the effective date of the transfer must be received by the Agency.Other Change During the Licensure PeriodA change of physical address requires submission of an application. Other documents that may be required include AHCA Form 3100-0007 and documentation verifying the applicant’s right to occupy the premises at the new address (i.e. warrant or quit claim deed; lease or rental agreement.)A bed change requires submission of an application.  If adding beds to the current license, the per bed license fee must accompany the application.  A license authorizing the additional beds will be issued when all documentation is received.  Please note a valid license is required before the additional beds can be utilized.Voluntary Termination of a LicenseA licensee must inform the agency not less than 30 days prior to the discontinuance of operation and comply with the requirements listed in Chapter 408.810(4), Florida Statutes.Accreditation RequirementsAccreditation is voluntary except for RTCs participating in the Medicaid program as Psychiatric Residential Treatment Facility (PRTF). Accredited RTCs meeting section 394.741, Florida Statute, are not scheduled for routine on-site licensure surveys. Facilities must provide a complete copy of the most recent survey report indicating continuation as an accredited facility in lieu of inspections. The survey report should include correspondence from the accrediting organization containing:The beginning and expiration dates of the survey,The accreditation status,Type of accreditation,Any citations to which the accreditation organization requires a response,A response to each citation,The effective date of accreditation, andAny follow up reports.Pursuant to section 394.90, Florida Statute, this report will become part of the facility file maintained by the Agency and therefore will be considered public record.  Facilities no longer accredited or granted accreditation status other than accredited or fail to submit the requested documentation will be scheduled for annual licensure surveys to be conducted by Agency field office staff.Statutory Authority: Section 408.811(2) and 394.741, Florida StatutesAccrediting OrganizationWeb AddressDeemed for State LicensureCommission on Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF)https://www.carf.org/YesCouncil on Accreditation (COA)https://coanet.org/YesThe Joint Commission (TJC)https://www.jointcommission.org/YesApplications and Supporting FormsForm NumberNameForDescriptionAHCA Form 3180-5004RTC Health Care Licensing ApplicationAll application typesStandard residential treatment center for children and adolescents application required to apply for or modify a RTC license.Recommended FormApplication Addendum InitialRenewalCHOWPlease provide this information to comply with the reporting requirements of Chapter 408, Part II, F.S. Business ArticlesInitialCHOWArticles of Incorporation or similarly titled document as filed with the Florida Department State. Proof of Right to Occupy PremisesInitialCHOWChange of AddressDocumentation verifying the applicant’s right to occupy the premises at the physical address of the facility (i.e. warranty or quit claim deed; lease or rental agreement). Compliance with Zoning RequirementsInitialCHOWChange of AddressFor all RTCs except Community Residential Homes, any documentation, dated within the last 6 months, from a local government identifying the facility is in compliance with local zoning requirements.For a facility considered to be a Community Residential Home under Chapter 419, F.S., provide a completed     




    Community Residential Home Affidavit of Compliance


    [
                    
                35.3 kB
    ]

 form. Certificate of OccupancyInitial due to new construction.Change of address due to new construction.Specific documentation from a local government granting the right to occupy a facility. Management AgreementInitialCHOW(if applicable)Contract between the owner and a management company for management of services. Closing DocumentCHOWBill of sale or similar document signed by the buyer and the seller indicating the date of transfer of ownership. Occupational LicenseInitialCHOWChange of Address (if move is to a new city and/or county)Occupational license issued to the facility by the local city and/or county government.Recommended Form

    HIV / AIDS Training Affidavit


    [
                    
                21.2 kB
    ]

InitialRenewalCHOWHIV / AIDS affidavit assuring required facility staff will be trained. Certificate of InsuranceInitialRenewalCHOWCertificate of Insurance verifying commercial or general liability insurance coverage (minimum required coverage is $300,000 per incidence and $1 million in aggregate). Fire Safety Inspection ReportInitialRenewalCHOWChange of AddressSatisfactory fire safety inspection report completed in the last 365 days Sanitation Inspection ReportInitialRenewalCHOWChange of AddressSatisfactory sanitation inspection report completed in the last 365 days.Form CF-MH 1065Emergency Management Planning CriteriaInitialCHOWProvides an outline to develop an emergency management plan. The plan must be approved by the county emergency operations center annually.Licensure FeesFee TypeAmountWho PaysDueInitial, renewal or CHOW Application$240 per bed.ApplicantWith application.Capacity Increase$240 per added bed.ApplicantWith application.Late Application$50 per day, up to 50% of the licensure fee or $500 (whichever is less)All late applicationsIf an application is not received at least 60 days prior to the anticipated effective date. Payment can be made any time during the application process or upon issuance of a final order.Incident ReportingBelow is the suggested reporting form to use for filing incident reports that are required under Rule 65E-9.005(3)(l), F.A.C.

    RTC Incident Report Form


    [
                    
                131.5 kB
    ]

Effective April 1, 2011, please direct all incident reports to:The Agency for Health Care AdministrationComplaint Administration Unit2727 Mahan Drive, Mail Stop 49Tallahassee, FL 32308For Residential Treatment Centers that have contracted with Medicaid to provide Statewide Inpatient Psychiatric Program (SIPP) services, this report will also satisfy reporting requirements under the Medicaid contract.Note: This reporting form does not impose new regulatory requirements and is not meant to replace the reporting requirements of the Department of Children and Families or reporting required of hospital programs under Chapter 395, Florida Statutes.Background ScreeningA level 2 background screen is required of the administrator responsible for the day to day operations of the facility and the chief financial officer. Please visit the Agency's background screening web page for additional information regarding vendors, fees, locations etc. Background screens must be repeated every 5 years.Department of Health Approval for Onsite Sewage Disposal SystemsDepartment of Health approval is required for onsite sewage disposal systems regulated by Chapter 64E-6, F.A.C. Please visit the Department of Health’s Onsite Sewage Programs webpage and select the  Interagency Coordination Regarding Regulated Establishments[  ] link. The approval form is at the end of the document.Statute/Rule AuthorityChapter 394 Part IV, F.S. Chapter65E-9, F.A.C.Chapter 408, Part II, F.S. Chapter 59A-35, F.A.C. ResourcesU.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Substance Abuse & Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA)SAMHSA's Center for Mental Health ServicesSAMHSA's National Center for Trauma-Informed Care SAMHSA's Evidence-based Practices Resource CenterThe National Child Traumatic Stress NetworkFlorida's Center for Child WelfareMandatory Radon Testing Requirements for 24-hour State Regulated ProvidersMap of Affected Counties for Radon TestingTop









                        Hospital & Outpatient Services Unit
                    





                                Abortion Clinic
                            



                                Ambulatory Surgical Center
                            



                                Birth Center
                            



                                Civil Rights Information
                            



                                Comprehensive Outpatient Rehabilitation Facility (CORF)
                            



                                Crisis Stabilization Units
                            



                                Hospitals
                            



                                Diagnostic Imaging Centers
                            



                                Community Mental Health Centers / Partial Hospitalization Programs (CMHC/PHP)
                            



                                Rehabilitation Agencies
                            



                                Reports
                            



                                Residential Treatment Facilities
                            



                                Residential Treatment Centers for Children and Adolescents
                            



                                Rural Health Clinics
                            



                                Portable X-ray
                            



                                Health Care Clinics
                            













                                            Jack
                                                                Plagge
                                                                
                        Manager | Hospital & Outpatient Services Unit
                                    

Bureau of Health Facility Regulation
2727 Mahan Drive, Mail Stop #53
Tallahassee, Florida 32308
                                                    Phone: (850) 412-4549

                    Email: hospitals@ahca.myflorida.com




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












