


































Agency Administration | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Administration












Home



Agency Administration












The head of the Agency for Health Care Administration is the Secretary, who is appointed by the Governor, subject to confirmation by the Senate.
The Agency’s administrative functions are located within the Chief of Staff’s Office, the Office of the General Counsel, the Office of the Inspector General and the Division of Operations.


Organization Chart



    Organization and Operations Statement


    [
                    
                736.3 kB
    ]




Chief of Staff

The Agency’s Chief of Staff is coordinates policy with other state agencies, the legislature and the federal government. The position also oversees the Agency’s legislative, communications and information technology efforts and is the primary liaison to the Governor's Washington D.C. Office.

General Counsel

The General Counsel manages the Office of the General Counsel (OGC), is a member of the Agency's Management Team, and advises the Secretary and the Agency Management Team on legal issues relating to the Agency.  The General Counsel supervises all OGC Section Chiefs.
OGC provides legal advice and representation for the Agency on all legal matters, including: licensure and regulation of health care facilities; regulation of managed care plans; administration of the Medicaid State plan; recovery of Medicaid overpayment's due to abuse or third party liability; and, civil litigation related to various Agency programs.  The Agency Clerk's Office and Public Records Office are also managed by the OGC.

Inspector General

The Office of the Inspector General is an integral part of the Agency for Health Care Administration (Agency). The purpose of the Office
of the Inspector General is to provide a central point for coordination of and responsibility for activities that promote accountability, integrity, and efficiency in the Agency. Section 20.055, Florida Statutes, mandates the duties and responsibilities of each inspector general, with respect to the state agency/department in which the office is established.

Operations


Financial Services
FX Office
General Services
Human Resources
Information Technology
Purchasing and Contract Administration










                        Agency Administration
                    





                                About the Secretary
                            



                                Chief of Staff Office
                            



                                Information Technology Office
                            



                                Office of Inspector General
                            



                                Office of the General Counsel
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












