



































Link Statement Disclaimer | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Link Statement Disclaimer












Home



Link Statement Disclaimer












Link Statement  Disclaimer In the course of providing the best service to the public, AHCA may link to  other organizations to provide additional useful information for our customers.These include: 

Links to a site owned by the  federal government, a state government, or a local government.
Links to a Web site owned by an  entity that has a business or contractual relationship with AHCA.

References from this web  site or from any of the information services sponsored by the Agency for Health  Care Administration (AHCA) to any non-governmental entity, product, service or  information does not constitute an endorsement or recommendation by AHCA or any  of its employees. AHCA is not responsible for the contents of any  "off-site" web pages referenced from this server. Although our page  includes links to sites including or referencing good collection of  information, AHCA does not endorse any specific products or services provided  by public or private organizations.









                        AHCA
                    





                                AHCA Emergency Portal
                            



                                Medicaid
                            



                                Health Care Policy and Oversight
                            



                                Agency Administration
                            



                                About the Agency for Health Care Administration
                            



                                Contact AHCA
                            



                                Public Meetings
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












