



































Internet Privacy Policy And Terms Of Use | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Internet Privacy Policy And Terms Of Use












Home



Internet Privacy Policy And Terms Of Use











 Internet Privacy PolicyThank you for visiting the Agency for Health Care Administration's website. Your privacy is very important to us. Simply stated, our policy is to collect no personally identifiable information about you when you visit our site unless you affirmatively choose to make such information available to us.When you visit our site, web traffic data is collected to continually improve website content and structure. The information collected does not result in the identification of your personal e-mail address or any other personally identifiable information. None of the information collected by the web server is shared in any format with other organizations. Again, only statistical information is collected, and your personally identifiable information is never acquired or identified.If you choose to share personal information, such as by subscribing to an e-newsletter, sending a message, or filling out an electronic form with personally identifiable information, the information may be subject to disclosure to third parties upon request, under Chapter 119, Florida Statutes. Some of this information may be saved for a designated period in order to comply with the state of Florida's archiving policies. However, information will not be disclosed to third parties or other government agencies, unless required by state or federal law. Under Florida law, e-mail addresses are public records. If you do not want your e-mail address released in response to a public records request, do not send electronic mail to this entity. Instead, contact this office by phone or in writing. If information is required by law to be disclosed about you, then every effort to notify you about the disclosure in advance will be taken.Visit the Florida Medicaid and MediKids Notice of Privacy Practices to see how information about you may be used and disclosed and how you can get access to this information.If you have other questions about our privacy policies or have suggestions on how these policies can be improved, please feel free to contact the Webmaster, or contact us by telephone at 1-888-419-3456.Terms Of UseIf you access any Agency resource requiring a login, you are accessing a restricted information system. By accessing that system, you are consenting to monitoring, recording, and agreeing to follow the Agency's policies regarding acceptable use, protection of information resources, and confidential health care information. All usage may be subject to audit. Improper, unauthorized, or illegal use of this computer is prohibited and may subject you to an investigation resulting in either disciplinary action in accordance with the Agency's standards, or possible civil or criminal penalties. Use of any Agency system with restricted access indicates consent to monitoring and recording.

    AHCA Terms Of Use


    [
                    
                67.4 kB
    ]



    AHCA Términos de Uso


    [
                    
                65.4 kB
    ]



    AHCA Kondisyon Itilizasyon


    [
                    
                65.7 kB
    ]











                        AHCA
                    





                                AHCA Emergency Portal
                            



                                Medicaid
                            



                                Health Care Policy and Oversight
                            



                                Agency Administration
                            



                                About the Agency for Health Care Administration
                            



                                Contact AHCA
                            



                                Public Meetings
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












