


































Visitation | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Visitation Rights












Home



Visitation















On April 6, 2022, Governor Ron DeSantis signed SB 988, which guarantees Florida families the fundamental right to visit their loved ones receiving care in hospitals, hospices, nursing homes, assisted living facilities, and intermediate care facilities for the developmentally disabled.



While the Federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services continue to waive this requirement for patients in hospitals, Florida law now guarantees this right. An outline of the legislation is found below. Please read this information carefully so you know what protections are available to you and your family.



No health care facility in Florida may require a vaccine as a condition to visitation and must allow for consensual physical contact between patients and their loved ones.SB 988 states that all hospitals, hospices, and long-term care facilities visitation policies and procedures must allow for in-person visitation in all the following circumstances, unless the resident, client, or patient objects:End-of-life situations.A resident, client, or patient who was living with family before being admitted to the provider’s care is struggling with the change in environment and lack of in-person family support.The resident, client, or patient is making one or more major medical decisions.A resident, client, or patient is experiencing emotional distress or grieving the loss of a friend or family member who recently died.A resident, client, or patient needs cueing or encouragement to eat or drink which was previously provided by a family member or caregiver.A resident, client, or patient who used to talk and interact with others is seldom speaking.For hospitals, childbirth, including labor and delivery.Pediatric patients.Providers are encouraged to review all information that is required by this law. A copy of the legislation can be found HERE.



Additionally, the bill allows a resident, client, or patient the option to designate a visitor who is a family member, friend, guardian, or other individual as an essential caregiver. The provider must allow in-person visitation by the essential caregiver for at least 2 hours daily in addition to any other visitation authorized by the provider.By May 6, all Florida hospitals, hospices, nursing homes, assisted living facilities, intermediate care facilities for the developmentally disabled must adopt and publicly post their visitation policy in an easily accessible format on the home page of their website. These policies should outline hours for visitation, infection control and education policies for visitors, and additional health or safety procedures that visitors are subject to.



Providers are authorized to request a visitor to agree to the policy and procedures in writing. However, the policy and procedures may not be more stringent than what is required for their staff.As Florida’s health care regulator, the Agency will survey for compliance with these protections as part of the Agency’s survey process and when a complaint is filed with the Agency.



ComplaintsThe Agency takes our commitment to the wellbeing of Florida’s patients seriously, and this includes a patient’s right to visitation with their family.If you or your loved one have been met with resistance from a hospital, hospice, or long-term care facility, when attempting to visit with loved ones, you may file a complaint with the Agency for further review and action.Submitting this complaint online may assist the Agency in expediting review with the goal of swift resolution. If you prefer to make this complaint via phone, the Agency has established a dedicated phone line for visitation related complaints 1-888-419-3456. A link to the complaint portal is found below:



















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












