



































Applications and Supporting Forms | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Applications and Supporting Forms












Home




Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Hospital & Outpatient Services Unit




Hospitals



Applications and Supporting Forms












Applications and Supporting Forms
 

 Form Number
Name
For
Description

AHCA Form 3130-8001
 Renew Online   Health Care Licensing Application Hospitals  
All application types
Standard  application required to apply for, renew, or modify a hospital license.

AHCA Form 3110-1024
 Health Care Licensing Addendum  
InitialRenewalCHOW
Collects the confidential information         to comply with the reporting     requirements pursuant to Chapter 408, Part II, F.S. 

AHCA Form 3130-8005


    Comprehensive 
    Emergency Management Planning Criteria for Hospitals 


    [
                    
                60.2 kB
    ]

 
InitialCHOW
Provides an outline to develop an emergency management plan. The plan must be approved by the county emergency operations center annually.

AHCA Form 3000-0001


    Emergency Services Exemption Request Form


    [
                    
                189.2 kB
    ]

  
 Exemption Request
Application required for Hospital emergency services exemption requests. Attach to AHCA Form 3130-8001. 

AHCA Form 3130-8013
 Alternate-Site Testing License Application  
InitialRenewalCHOW
Form recommended for reporting alternate-site testing within the hospital premises. Attach to AHCA Form 3130-8001. 




    Supplemental Information – Comprehensive Medical Rehabilitation Beds


    [
                    
                104.7 kB
    ]

 
Any bed change
A program description that outlines how the hospital will meet the current requirements of Rule 59C-1.039, F.A.C.




    Supplemental Information – Heart Transplant Services


    [
                    
                114.9 kB
    ]

 
Initial Designation
A program description that outlines how the hospital will meet the current requirements of Rule 59C-1.044, F.A.C., related to heart transplantation programs.




    Supplemental Information – Liver Transplant Services


    [
                    
                115.1 kB
    ]

 
Initial Designation
A program description that outlines how the hospital will meet the current requirements of Rule 59C-1.044, F.A.C., related to liver transplantation programs.




    Supplemental Information – Kidney Transplant Services


    [
                    
                117.5 kB
    ]

 
Initial Designation
A program description that outlines how the hospital will meet the current requirements of Rule 59C-1.044, F.A.C., related to kidney transplantation programs.




    Supplemental Information – Bone Marrow Transplant Services


    [
                    
                126.8 kB
    ]

 
Initial Designation
A program description that outlines how the hospital will meet the current requirements of Rule 59C-1.044, F.A.C., related to bone marrow transplantation programs.




    Supplemental Information – Lung, Heart and Lung, Pancreas and Islet Cells, and Intestines Transplant Services


    [
                    
                114.6 kB
    ]

 
Initial Designation
A program description that outlines how the hospital will meet the current requirements of Rule 59C-1.044, F.A.C., related to lung, heart and lung, pancreas and islet cells, and intestines transplantation programs.

 
 Bed Memo 
Initial       Any bed change        Addition or change to the address of a hospital-based off-campus emergency dept or surgery center 
Internal AHCA memo signifying compliance with Florida Building Code and which lists the beds eligible for licensure.

 
Business Articles
Initial      CHOW
Articles of Incorporation or similarly titled document as filed with the Florida Department of State.

 
Compliance with zoning requirements
Initial    CHOW
Any documentation from a local government identifying the facility is in compliance with local zoning requirements.

 
Certificate of Occupancy
Initial
Specific documentation from a local government granting the right to occupy a facility.

 
Management Agreement
Initial    CHOW
Contract between the owner and a management company for management services.

 
Closing Document
 CHOW
Bill of Sale or similar document signed by the buyer and the seller indicating the date of transfer of ownership.

 
Statement of outstanding deficiencies
CHOW
Statement from the buyer assuring any uncorrected  life-safety deficiencies will be corrected timely.

 
Statement of outstanding payments
CHOW
Statement from the buyer identifying any outstanding balance owed to AHCA, and indicating who will pay and when.

AHCA Form 3190-2000


    Hospital Outpatient Observation Notice


    [
                    
                55.3 kB
    ]

  
Notification to patients on observation status
Form to be used to immediately notify a non-Medicare patient or the patient’s representative when a patient  is placed on observation status. The signed version must be incorporated into the  patient’s medical record and provided to the patient, patient’s survivor, or  legal guardian through discharge papers.


Top










                        Hospitals
                    





                                Emergency Services
                            



                                Licensure Fees
                            



                                Licensure Requirements
                            



                                Licensed Hospital Programs
                            



                                Medicare Certification Requirements
                            



                                State and Federal Regulations
                            



                                Other Report Forms
                            



                                Applications and Supporting Forms
                            













                                            Jack
                                                                Plagge
                                                                
                        Manager | Hospital & Outpatient Services Unit
                                    

Bureau of Health Facility Regulation
2727 Mahan Drive, Mail Stop #53
Tallahassee, Florida 32308
                                                    Phone: (850) 412-4549

                    Email: hospitals@ahca.myflorida.com




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












