



































Emergency Services | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Emergency Services












Home




Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Hospital & Outpatient Services Unit




Hospitals



Emergency Services











Emergency ServicesHospital Emergency AccessAny person needing emergency medical care or any woman in active labor may not be denied access to appropriate emergency medical services and care. Emergency services and care means medical screening, examination and evaluation by a physician, or by authorized personnel under the supervision of a physician, to determine if an emergency medical condition exists.Emergency Services Inventory and ExemptionsHospitals offering emergency services must report to the Agency an inventory of services which are within the service capability of the hospital. If a hospital determines it is unable to provide a service on a 24 hour per day, 7 day per week basis, either directly or indirectly through arrangement with another hospital or physician(s), the hospital must file an application with the Agency to request a service exemption.Emergency Services Reports DOH Trauma Center DesignationAs part of the emergency services inventory, hospitals indicate if they have met trauma center criteria. The Department of Health has the responsibility for the planning and establishment of a statewide trauma system so all applications for trauma center designation must be sent to the Department of Health's Office of Trauma. Applications, statute and rule references, and a list of current certified trauma centers and contact information are available on their web site.DOH Office of TraumaHospital-based Off-campus Emergency DepartmentsAny Florida licensed hospital which has a dedicated emergency department may provide emergency services in a location off of the hospital's main premises. The hospital-based off-campus emergency department must be under the same direction, offer the same services, and comply with the same regulatory requirements as the emergency department located on the hospital's main premises. There are no additional rules or standards specific for emergency departments located off the premises of the licensed hospital.Hospitals desiring to offer off-campus emergency departments must meet the physical plant review requirements of s. 395.0163, F.S. The Agency must review the facility's plans and specifications before any construction can begin. Reviews are also conducted during the construction phase and final physical plant approval is granted when the facility is determined to meet all applicable hospital building codes. Off-campus emergency departments must also meet the occupancy and construction requirements of the Life Safety Code for a Health Care Occupancy and Florida Building Code for an Institutional I-2 occupancy. Contact the Agency's  Office of Plans and Construction for details.An application to add a hospital-based off-campus emergency department must be made on AHCA Form 3130-8001 with documentation providing proof of ownership or right to occupy the premises. The hospital's emergency services inventory must be updated, if applicable. Refer to the hospital application checklist for additional instructions.State of Florida Emergency Medical Services PlanPursuant to sections 395.103 and 401.015, F.S., hospitals with an emergency department must have an onsite telecommunications device that meets the requirements of the EMS Communications Plan. 









                        Hospitals
                    





                                Emergency Services
                            



                                Licensure Fees
                            



                                Licensure Requirements
                            



                                Licensed Hospital Programs
                            



                                Medicare Certification Requirements
                            



                                State and Federal Regulations
                            



                                Other Report Forms
                            



                                Applications and Supporting Forms
                            













                                            Jack
                                                                Plagge
                                                                
                        Manager | Hospital & Outpatient Services Unit
                                    

Bureau of Health Facility Regulation
2727 Mahan Drive, Mail Stop #53
Tallahassee, Florida 32308
                                                    Phone: (850) 412-4549

                    Email: hospitals@ahca.myflorida.com




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












