



































Licensure Fees | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Licensure Fees












Home




Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Hospital & Outpatient Services Unit




Hospitals



Licensure Fees












Licensure Fees

Fee Type
How Much
Who Pays
When

Initial, Renewal or CHOW Application
 $31.46 per licensed bed or $1,565.13 (whichever is more).
Initial, Renewal and CHOW applicants
With application

Other  Change During the Licensure Period
 $31.46 per licensed bed or $1,565.13 (whichever is more).           PLUS       $25 replacement license fee.
Miscellaneous change during the license period applicants        
With application      

Licensure survey
$12 per licensed bed or $400, whichever is more.
Initial applicants          All unaccredited hospitals and accredited hospitals selected for a validation survey
Initial applicants submit payment with the application.          Licensed hospitals will be billed.      

Life-safety survey
$1.50 per licensed bed or $40, whichever is more.
All licensed hospitals
Licensed hospitals will be billed.

Late application      
$50 per day, up to $500
All late applicants
If an application is not received at least 60 days prior to the anticipated effective date.  Licenses will not be issued until all fees are paid in full.










                        Hospitals
                    





                                Emergency Services
                            



                                Licensure Fees
                            



                                Licensure Requirements
                            



                                Licensed Hospital Programs
                            



                                Medicare Certification Requirements
                            



                                State and Federal Regulations
                            



                                Other Report Forms
                            



                                Applications and Supporting Forms
                            













                                            Jack
                                                                Plagge
                                                                
                        Manager | Hospital & Outpatient Services Unit
                                    

Bureau of Health Facility Regulation
2727 Mahan Drive, Mail Stop #53
Tallahassee, Florida 32308
                                                    Phone: (850) 412-4549

                    Email: hospitals@ahca.myflorida.com




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












