


































Medicaid Pharmaceutical & Therapeutics Committee | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Medicaid Pharmaceutical & Therapeutics Committee












Home




Medicaid




Prescribed Drugs



Medicaid Pharmaceutical & Therapeutics Committee












Medicaid Pharmaceutical & Therapeutics Committee
The  purpose of the Florida Medicaid Pharmaceutical & Therapeutics (P&T) Committee  is to develop and implement a Medicaid preferred drug list (PDL), as mandated,  originally, in the 2000 session of the Florida legislature.
Committee Members
  Florida Statute 409.91195 requires the appointment of this     




    committee


    [
                    
                87.1 kB
    ]

 by the Governor. 
Schedule of Meetings
Information regarding the next scheduled meetings for the Pharmaceutical & Therapeutics Committee can be found at the Pharmacy Meeting Notices web page.
Florida Medicaid Preferred Drug List
Upon recommendations by the P&T committee, established pursuant to  s. 409.91195, the Agency for  Health Care Administration (Agency) shall establish the Florida Medicaid Preferred Drug List (PDL).
The Florida Medicaid PDL, shall be a listing of  cost-effective, safe and clinically efficient medications for each of the  therapeutic classes on the list.   
  Providers and recipients can access the PDL to be  informed of medications that can be prescribed without requiring prior  authorization documentation. However, clinicians retain the option of  prescribing drugs not on the PDL, pursuant to s. 409.912(8). 









                        Medicaid Pharmaceutical & Therapeutics Committee
                    





                                Florida Medicaid Preferred Drug List (PDL)
                            



                                Pharmacy Prior Authorization Forms
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












