


































Ambulatory Surgical Center Services | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Ambulatory Surgical Center Services












Home




Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Policy and Quality




Medicaid Policy




Medical and Behavioral Health Coverage Policy




Behavioral Health and Health Facilities



Ambulatory Surgical Center Services












Florida Medicaid’s Covered Services and HCBS Waivers
Ambulatory Surgical  Center Services
Medicaid reimburses Ambulatory Surgical Centers for  scheduled, elective, medically necessary surgical care to patients who do not  require hospitalization when the surgery meets the following:

Requires a dedicated operating room.
Normally not emergency or life threatening in  nature.
Listed in the Medicaid Ambulatory Surgery Center  fee schedule.
Ninety minutes or less in operating time.
Four hours or less recovery or convalescent  time.
Does not require major invasion of body cavities  or directly involve major blood vessels.
Does not usually result in heavy loss of blood.

This service is one of the minimum covered services for all Managed  Medical Assistance plans serving Medicaid enrollees.
Eligibility
All Medicaid recipients may receive medically  necessary Ambulatory Surgical Center services in accordance with coverage and  limitations requirements.
Resource Information
Information on Medicaid health plans and services is  available on the Statewide Medicaid Managed Care webpage. 
The Florida Medicaid coverage policies, fee schedules, and Rule are  available on the Agency  Website. 









                        Behavioral Health and Health Facilities
                    





                                Ambulatory Surgical Center Services
                            



                                Behavior Analysis Services Information
                            



                                Behavioral Health Overlay Services
                            



                                Child Health Targeted Case Management
                            



                                Community Behavioral Health Services
                            



                                Inpatient Hospital Services
                            



                                Intermediate Care Facility for Individuals with Intellectual Disabilities (ICF/IID) Services
                            



                                Mental Health Targeted Case Management
                            



                                Nursing Facility Services
                            



                                Outpatient Hospital Services
                            



                                Specialized Therapeutic Foster Care Services
                            



                                State Mental Health Hospital Services
                            



                                Statewide Inpatient Psychiatric Program Services
                            



                                Targeted Case Management for Children at Risk of Abuse and Neglect
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












