


































Housing Assistance Waiver | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Housing Assistance Waiver












Home




Medicaid




Statewide Medicaid Managed Care



Housing Assistance Waiver












Housing Assistance Waiver
Overview
The Agency for Health Care  Administration implemented a housing assistance pilot, in collaboration with  certain health plans, on December 1, 2019. Through this program, Florida  Medicaid will be providing evidence-based community supports and services that will  assist in securing housing for Medicaid recipients ages 21 and older who are  homeless or at risk of homelessness and have a serious mental illness (SMI),  substance use disorder (SUD). The overall goal is to facilitate housing  stability and improve health outcomes for participants. Up to 4,000 Medicaid  recipients can be served annually.
This program is only available  through the Statewide Medicaid Managed Care (SMMC) program for recipients  residing in regions five and seven.  Health plans operating in those  regions were required to submit a housing assistance application to participate  in the program.  As a part of that process, the plan had to demonstrate  their ability to provide the services offered through the pilot as well as  demonstrate strong linkages through community partnerships. The participating  plans are:

Aetna
Molina
Simply
Sunshine

Covered Services
Transitional housing services: Transitional housing services support a recipient in the preparation for  and transition into housing. Examples include:

Conducting a tenant screening and  housing assessment
Developing an individualized  housing support plan
Assisting with the search for  housing and the application process
Identifying resources to pay for  on-going housing expenses such as rent
Ensure that the living environment  is safe and ready for move-in

Tenancy sustaining services: Tenancy  sustaining services are services that support a recipient in being a successful  tenant. Examples include:

Early identification and intervention for  behaviors that may jeopardize housing
Education and training on the roles, rights and  responsibilities of the tenant and landlord
Coaching on developing and maintaining key  relationships with landlord/property managers
Assistance in resolving disputes with landlords  and/or neighbors to reduce risk of eviction
Advocacy and linkage  with community resources to prevent eviction

Mobile crisis management:  Mobile crisis management is intensive on-site intervention to recipients  experiencing a behavioral health crisis provided by a team of behavioral health  professional who are available 24/7/365.
Self-help/peer support: Self-help/peer support is person centered service promoting skills for  coping with and managing symptoms while utilizing natural resources and the  preservation and enhancement of community living skills with the assistance of  a peer support specialist.
Incidental Coverage:  Health plans can elect to cover one time incidentals such as cash  assistance for pilot participation including deposit(s), rent, and utilities.
Additional Resources



    Florida Medicaid Temporary Housing Assistance Pilot One-Pager


    [
                    
                254.4 kB
    ]




    Health Plan Housing Assistance Pilot Application


    [
                    
                203.3 kB
    ]



Medicaid Regions Included in Pilot Program

Medicaid Regions five (Pinellas and Pasco  County) and seven (Seminole, Orange, Brevard, and Osceola Counties) are the only  areas where the services are available.
ONLY Medicaid enrollees living in Region five  and Region seven are eligible to participate. Region five is highlighted in  orange and region seven is highlighted in red. Enrollees living in all other  areas are not eligible for participation in the pilot program.
The participants must meet the additional  eligibility requirements of having an SMI, SUD, or a co-occurring SMI and SUD.
The participants must  also be homeless or at risk of being homeless.













                        Statewide Medicaid Managed Care
                    





                                Data Book - Dental Program Re-Procurement
                            



                                IDD Pilot Program
                            



                                New SMMC Program
                            



                                Plan Communications Prior to 2022
                            



                                SMMC Report Guide Archive
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












