


































MMA Physician Incentive Program (MPIP) | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










MMA Physician Incentive Program (MPIP)












Home




Medicaid




Statewide Medicaid Managed Care



MMA Physician Incentive Program (MPIP)











The Agency for Health Care Administration (Agency) implemented the MMA Physician Incentive Program (MPIP) for dates of service beginning on October 1, 2016, in accordance with Florida Statutes, Section 409.967 (2)(a). Section 409.967 (2)(a), F.S. requires that managed care plans use effective care management to redirect available resources to pay physicians rates which equal or exceed the Medicare rates for similar services. MPIP is designed to increase compensation for designated physician types who meet certain qualifying criteria, primarily associated with key access and performance measures. For more detailed information about the program design for each year of MPIP, click the links below.Agency MPIP Model 2023-2024Program HistoryMPIP Year 1: 2016 - 2017MPIP Year 2: 2017 – 2018MPIP Year 3: 2018 – 2019MPIP Year 4: 2019 – 2020MPIP Year 5: 2020 – 2021MPIP Year 6: 2021 – 2022MPIP Year 7: 2022 – 2023If you are a provider contracted with a health plan to provide services and you have additional questions regarding MPIP, please contact the plan directly. Plan contact information can be found at the link below.Health Plan Contacts for ProvidersWhat region am I in?The Statewide Medicaid Managed Care program operates in 11 distinct regions.  The Agency selected plans to provide services in each region.  Please click the link above to determine what region you are located.What plans are in my region?The Agency selected plans to participate in the SMMC program on a regional basis.  To determine the regions that operate in your region please click on the link above.How do I join a plan in my region?If you are interested in contracting with the plans in your region, please click the link above for plan provider relation contact information.Patient Centered Medical Home Resource InformationMany of the MMA plans have chosen to use certification as a Patient Centered Medical Home as a qualification for the Physician Incentive Program.How do I enroll as a provider with Medicaid?If you are not enrolled as a provider in the Medicaid program, but are interested in enrolling, please click on the link above.Archive









                        MMA Physician Incentive Program (MPIP)
                    





                                Agency MPIP Model 2023-2024
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












