



































Electronic Statement of Deficiencies and Plan of Corrections (ePOC) | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Electronic Statement of Deficiencies and Plan of Corrections (ePOC)












Home




Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Field Operations




Survey and Certification Support Branch



Electronic Statement of Deficiencies and Plan of Corrections (ePOC)












Florida QIES Help Desk          Survey and Certification Support Branch          Telephone: (850) 412-4501           Florida Relay Service (TDD):  (800) 955-8771           Fax: (850) 414-6946  Email: FLQIES_HELP@ahca.myflorida.com
The Florida QIES Helpdesk has an e-mail alert system to notify registered providers or interested parties of "late-breaking" ePOC information. Complete as much information using the registration link below and check ePOC for Provider Type and Opt-In to receive emails or Opt-Out if you wish to stop receiving emails.

Sign Up for ePOC Alerts

Alert:
On April 4,  2019 there was an upgrade to the sysem, one of the changes was the ePOC alerts  email now ends in .gov instead of .com
Since the  sender’s email has changed, Providers will need to make sure emails from the  following addresses are whitelisted:


aspen.alerts@qtso.cms.gov


aspen.ePOC_notify@qtso.cms.gov


These may be  being blocked or marked as SPAM since it is a new 'sender'. 
If the emails  are not being stopped on entry, we will need to contact the vendor for further  scrutiny.
ePOC Information 
The Agency for Health Care Administration (AHCA) is participating with the Center for Medicare/Medicaid Services (CMS) electronic 2567 and plan of correction (ePOC) program. All certified skilled nursing homes must participate; Certified SNF/NFs are the only provider with the ePOC option.

The ePOC program will allow enrolled Nursing Homes to:

Review CMS 2567 Statements of Deficiencies (SODs) online
Create and submit Plan of Corrections (POC) online
Review letters added to the survey by the State Agency or CMS Regional Office
Attach documentation to support their Plan of Correction
After all POC's are approved, print the 2567 for posting from the ePOC website


    ePOC Provider Step by Step Instructions to attach documents in ePOC


    [
                    
                98.4 kB
    ]



Bulletins: 



     Electronic Statement of Deficiencies and Plan of Corrections (ePOC) Implementation


    [
                    
                67.3 kB
    ]


        - January 09, 2016

ePOC Steps for Implementation


GET READY 



Identify staff who currently have authority to sign your paper POCs. Facilities must have between two and four users assigned to review/submit. We strongly encourage you to utilize all four available IDs.


Review Documents:
Each staff member with the authority to submit the ePOCs must complete the CMS Online Training:
Complete the Attestation of Readiness ePOC Form
           (Only one form needed per facility) 
        :



REGISTER 



Individual Access:
          https://qtso.cms.gov/access-forms/epoc-individual-access

Existing MDS Account: If you already have an MDS account for your facility and would like to add ePOC access, you may use Access Update to do so. Refer to the 'Steps to Access ePOC Application' document for further instructions:
          https://qtso.cms.gov/system/files/2018-03/ePOC_steps_0.pdf[  ]

Multiple Facility / Corporate Access:
          https://qtso.cms.gov/access-forms/epoc-multiple-facility-corporate-access




IMPLEMENT



Once there is at least one corporate or facility user, the facility will use ePOC with your next survey.

CMSNet Access Request Form[  ]
        (Only use this form to remove individual access or request access if online registration is unavailable.)
          How to Complete and Save a PDF Form Electronically [  ]



    Accessing Your ePOC Account


    [
                    
                108.7 kB
    ]


        -- Follow these 8 steps to access your account at any time.

Resources


 The  
National QIES Help Desk
  will be glad to answer questions about the forms for access, passwords and general access to the system. 


 The  
Florida QIES Help Desk
  will be glad to answer any requests related to how to use the ePOC system. 850-412-4501 or FLQIES_HELP@ahca.myflorida.com. 


 The Field Office is still your contact for questions related to time frames for submitting the plan of correction and anything with the content of the 2567 form. 











                        Survey and Certification Support Branch
                    





                                Electronic Statement of Deficiencies and Plan of Corrections (ePOC)
                            



                                Minimum Data Set (MDS)
                            



                                Outcome and Assessment Information Set (OASIS)
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












