



































Clinical Laboratory Fees and Test Counts | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Clinical Laboratory Fees and Test Counts












Home




Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Laboratory and In-Home Services



Clinical Laboratory Fees and Test Counts












 
Clinical Laboratory Fees and Test Counts
Calculating Fees

If you are accredited by an approved accreditation organization (A2LA, AABB, ASHI, CAP, COLA, or The Joint Commission), the biennial licensure fee is $100.
If you are an out-of-state Laboratory, please let your accrediting organization know that you are seeking licensure in Florida so that the $100 fee can apply. Also, if you are surveyed by New York or Washington, please provide that information to qualify as an out-of-state exempt Laboratory and for the $100 fee. If not accredited, please count only tests on specimens from Florida laboratories.
If you are performing non-waived tests including PPM testing and are not accredited by an approved accreditation organization, you will be assessed a biennial (two year) licensure fee based on the specialties and volumes of testing that you perform.  The table below describes those fees.

Although CLIA CMS116 forms are a part of the Laboratory application packet submitted to the state, the CLIA program separately bills the Laboratory for payment. CLIA fees should never be sent to the State of Florida. 
Annual Volume of Non-Waived Testing
Number of Specialties
Biennial Fee

Not more than 2,000 tests per year
NA
$400

More than 2,000, but not more than 10,000
Not more than 3 testing categories
$965

Not more than 10,000
 At Least 4 testing categories
$1,294

More than 10,000, but not more than 25,000
Not more than 3 testing categories
$1,592

More than 10,000, but not more than 25,000
At least 4 testing categories
$2,103

More than 25,000 but not more than 50,000
NA
$2,364

More than 50,000, but not more than 75,000
NA
$2,625

More than 75,000, but not more than 100,000
NA
$2,886

More than 100,000, but not more than 500,000
NA
$3,397

More than 500,000, but not more  than 1,000,000
NA
$3,658

More than 1,000,000 tests
NA
$3,919

Counting Tests
Do not count:

Waived tests
Proficiency test samples
Quality control samples
Calculated test results
Tests referred to another Laboratory


Procedure
How to Count

All PPM tests
Count each specimen as one test.

Urinalysis dipstick (Non-waived)
Count as one test, regardless of the number of reagent pads on the test strip.

Urine Microscopic
Count each specimen as one test.

Chemistry Tests and Profiles
Count each test individually, even if performed as part of a profile.  Do not count calculated results such as A/G & BUN/creatinine ratios, osmolality, etc. 

Allergens
Count each allergen as one test.

CBC
Count each measured CBC parameter (WBC/RBC/platelet/hemoglobin/MCV) individually.  Do not count calculated results such as automated hematocrit, indices, etc.

Manual or automated WBC differentials
Count manual or automated WBC differentials as one test, regardless of the number of parameters reported.

Immunohematology tests
Count each individual immunohematology test (ABO, Rh, antibody screen, antibody identification, crossmatch or other immunohematology test) as one test each.

Cultures
Count each culture type as one, regardless of the extent of identification.  (e.g., If a sputum specimen is provided for routine culture, gram stain, AFB smear and culture, and a mycology culture, it counts as five tests.

Antimicrobial susceptibility tests
Count each test as one, regardless of the number of disks.

Direct parasite smear/concentration
Count each specimen as one test.

Trichrome stains, etc.
Count each specimen as one test.

Pathology and Cytology
Count each specimen as one test.










                        Laboratory and In-Home Services
                    





                                Clinical Laboratories
                            



                                End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) Dialysis Facilities
                            



                                Forensic Toxicology Laboratories
                            



                                Home Health Agencies
                            



                                Exemption from Home Health Agency Licensure
                            



                                Nurse Registries
                            



                                Organ Procurement Organizations (OPOs), Tissue Banks, Eye Banks
                            



                                Florida Organ and Tissue Donor Education Program
                            













                                            Ruby
                                                                Grantham
                                                                
                        Manager, Laboratory and In-Home Services Unit
                                    

Bureau of Health Facility Regulation
2727 Mahan Drive - Mail Stop #32
Tallahassee, FL 32308
                                                    Phone: (850) 412-4500

                    Email: Labstaff@ahca.myflorida.com
Florida Relay Service (TDD): (800) 955-8771



 


















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












