



































Clinical Laboratories | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Clinical Laboratories












Home




Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Laboratory and In-Home Services



Clinical Laboratories











Laboratory and In-Home ServicesNotices/UpdatesNEW:    COVID-19 Testing and Laboratory Director Qualifications Upon EUA approval and release by the FDA, a laboratory test (including a COVID-19 test) is assigned a complexity: waived, moderate or high complexity.Laboratory director qualifications are dependent on the complexity of the test and can be found in 42 CFR 493.Waived Testing – No Lab Director qualifications in 42 CFR 493Moderate Complexity Testing – Lab Director must meet §493.1403 and §493.1405(a) and (b)High Complexity Testing – Lab Director must meet §493.1441 and §493.1443(a) and (b)For pharmacists in Florida, the federal requirements in §493.1405(a) and §493.1443(a) are satisfied based on the issuance ofEmergency Order DOH No. 20-006, however §493.1405(b) and §493.1443(b) must still be met.CLIA applicants (including those that intend on administering COVID-19 tests) must provide the test name, type and manufacturer to determine whether the test is waived, moderate or high complexity for the purposes of assessing that the certificate type being requested is appropriate for the test being performed and that the lab director meets the required qualifications.The clinical laboratory is required to comply with state regulations governing laboratory director and personnel qualification requirements if applicable, in addition to federal regulations under 42 C.F.R. 493. State clinical laboratory personnel regulations can be accessed at Chapter 483, Part II, Florida Statutes. For more information on state clinical laboratory personnel requirements, visit the Florida Department of Health, Board of Clinical Laboratory Personnel.For questions regarding test complexity and laboratory director requirements, please contact the Laboratory and In-Home Services Unit at Labstaff@ahca.myflorida.comEffective July 1, 2018, the Agency will discontinue the licensure program for non-waived laboratories. 

    Discontinuation of the Non-waived Laboratory Licensure Program


    [
                    
                240.2 kB
    ]

Laws of Florida 2018-24[  ]The Laboratory and In-Home Services Unit administers programs for the following:Clinical Laboratories:The physical location where examinations on fluids, tissues or cells, taken from the human body are performed to provide information or materials for use in the diagnosis, prevention, or treatment of a disease or the identification or assessment of a medical or physical condition.Non-waived A clinical laboratory that performs testing other than those which have been determined to qualify for a certificate of waiver under the federal Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA), and the federal rules adopted thereunder.Waived A test system, assay or examination that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has determined meets the CLIA statutory criteria as specified for waiver under section 353(d)(3) of the Public Health Service Act.Federal Certification for Clinical Laboratories (CLIA)Effective July 1, 2018, the State of Florida no longer requires a state license for clinical laboratory services, however the federal CLIA program is still in effect.  CLIA certification is required for facilities that test clinical specimens for the purpose of diagnosis, treatment, or prevention of disease.Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA)The Federal Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA), at 42 CFR 493, define a clinical laboratory as any facility that examines materials derived from the human body for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of any disease or impairment of, or the assessment of the health of, human beings.  Any facility that meets this definition must have the appropriate CLIA certificate to perform laboratory tests.  If a facility is only collecting specimens, a CLIA certificate is not required.Click here for Information on how to apply for a CLIA certificate.Click here for the CLIA Application for Certification, Form CMS-116[  ].NOTE: The CLIA 116 Application was revised in September 2017.  Our office will no longer accept previous versions of the application.Frequently Asked Questions:How do I know if I need a CLIA certificate?You must have a CLIA certificate even if you perform only one waived laboratory test. It does not matter if you charge for the test or not, you must have a CLIA certificate. If you perform a test and do not have a CLIA certificate you will be in violation of federal law.If your facility only collects specimens to be sent out for testing at another facility, then CLIA certification is not required for your facility. Laboratories performing research only testing, laboratories operated directly by the Federal Government (i.e. VA, DoD), or laboratories participating in a drug-free workplace program do not require CLIA certification.What type of clinical laboratory do I have?There are four types of CLIA certification for laboratories, depending on the type of testing performed:Certificate of Waiver – Allows the provider to perform tests granted waived status by the FDA. The cost of the certificate is $180.00 every two years. A list of waived tests can be found under Informational Resources.Certificate of Provider-Performed Microscopy (PPM) – Allows the provider and only the provider to use a microscope to perform microscopic procedures (KOH Wet Mount, Urine Sediment Exam, etc.). The laboratory may also perform waived tests under a PPM certificate. The cost of the certificate is $240.00 every two years. A list of PPM tests can be found under Informational Resources.Certificate of Compliance – A laboratory that performs tests categorized as waived, PPM, and non-waived tests (moderate and/or highly complex) and is issued to a laboratory after an inspection that finds the laboratory to be in compliance with all applicable CLIA requirements. The cost of the certificate is dependent on the number of non-waived tests performed annually.Certificate of Accreditation – A laboratory that performs tests categorized as waived, PPM, and non-waived (moderate and/or highly complex) and the laboratory chooses to be accredited by an approved accrediting organization. The cost of the certificate fee (this is in addition to the accreditation fee) is based on the number of tests performed annually. How do I apply for a CLIA certificate?Click here for Information on how to apply for a CLIA certificate. Click here for the CLIA Application for Certification, Form CMS-116. [  ] How does the CLIA certification process work?Step One – Application SubmissionComplete all sections of the CLIA Application for Certification, Form CMS-116[  ] including an email address where correspondence can be received. An incomplete application will result in an omission letter and delay the approval of the application. On page 3 of the application, you are required to list the tests that you are going to perform and indicate an estimated test volume. This is strictly an estimate. A number/test volume must be indicated for the application to be considered complete.For questions regarding a multiple site exception, please contact the Laboratory and In-Home Services Unit at (850) 412-4500 and ask to speak with a laboratory consultant.Provide documentation of the laboratory director’s credentials as required:Certificate of Waiver – no credentials are requiredCertificate of Provider Performed Microscopy (PPM) – copy of the director’s medical licenseCertificate of Compliance – copy of the director’s medical license and other qualifying information.Certificate of Accreditation – copy of the director’s medical license and other qualifying informationThe completed CLIA Application for Certification, Form CMS-116 and any required documentation can be emailed or mailed to the Agency:Via Email:Labstaff@ahca.myflorida.comVia Mail:Agency for Health Care AdministrationLaboratory and In-Home Services Unit2727 Mahan Drive, MS #32Tallahassee, FL 32308Do not send the payment with the application. Once your CLIA Application for Certification, Form CMS-116[  ] has been received and approved, CMS will send an invoice (CLIA user fee coupon) to the mailing address reported on the application.Step Two – Application ReviewApplications will be reviewed within 30 days of receipt. If the application and all required documentation is complete, it will be entered into the federal CLIA system. If the application or required documentation is not complete, an email will be sent to the applicant notifying them of apparent errors or omissions and requesting a response. If the applicant fails to respond to omissions timely, the application may be administratively withdrawn.Step Three – Application FeeOnce the completed application has been entered into the federal CLIA system, an invoice (CLIA user fee coupon) will be generated by the federal contractor and mailed to the facility at the mailing address listed on the CMS-116. Fee coupons are generated by the federal contractor.Step Four – CLIA Certificate IssuanceWhen the invoice (CLIA user fee coupon) has been paid and processed by the CLIA program, the CLIA certificate will be mailed out. When the laboratory receives the CLIA certificate, they may start testing and billing for the test(s) performed.Step Five – CLIA SurveyThe laboratory must have completed a minimum of 90 days of testing before a survey can be scheduled and conducted. There is a reasonable expectation that when the CLIA certificate is issued, the applicant can and will begin testing. Failure to submit to a survey may result in termination of the CLIA certificate. When will I receive my CLIA certificate?The CLIA certificate will not be issued until the CLIA fees have been paid. How do I pay my CLIA fees?CLIA fees can be paid via mail or online. Please note that you must have the fee coupon before you can pay the fees, whether online or by mail. Payments cannot be made by phone with the state agency.Via Online: The CLIA invoice (CLIA user fee coupon) may be paid online at: https://www.pay.gov/public/form/start/55598674.Via Mail: Submit the payment along with the CLIA user fee coupon to the following address. The CLIA number should be included on the check or money order.CLIA Laboratory ProgramPO Box 3056Portland, OR 97208-3056Please note a CLIA Fee increase went into effect on 1/7/19. Why does my facility address not appear on the invoice?The invoice will only contain the mailing address of the facility. If there is a separate mailing address listed on the CMS-116, then that will be the address shown on the invoice. If there is no separate mailing address listed, then the facility address will appear on the invoice. I’ve paid my CLIA fee. Why haven’t I received my CLIA certificate yet?New CLIA certificates are mailed out approximately three weeks before the current certificate expires. If new a new certificate isnot received before your current certificate expires, please contact the Laboratory and In-Home Services Unit at (850) 412-4500.How do I renew my CLIA certificate?The certificate renewal process is automatic for any existing CLIA certificate. CMS will mail out the renewal invoice approximately 6 months prior to the expiration date of the current certificate. There will be a total of 3 invoices mailed out, every two months prior to the expiration date of the current certificate. Once the payment is processed, CMS will not mail the new certificate until approximately 3 weeks prior to the current expiration date, regardless of when the payment was processed. How do I make changes to my CLIA certificate?Changes that Require Submission of a new CMS-116 (applies to Certificates of PPM, Compliance and Accreditation only)A new form CMS-116 must be completed and submitted for the following laboratory changes. The CMS-116 must be completed and signed by the laboratory director.Change of certificate typeReinstatement of a CLIA certificateChange in Ownership and/or Tax ID (EIN)Demographic changes for changes other than to a Certificate of WaiverName of the LaboratoryAddress of the Laboratory (Physical Location)Mailing AddressTelephone and Fax NumberLaboratory Director – PPM or Compliance labs only. Changes for accredited labs must be sent to the Laboratory and In-Home Services Unit as well as the laboratory's accrediting organization. A copy of the director’s medical license and other qualifying information must be included.Multiple Site laboratories – to become a multiple site lab or add additional sites/addresses to the current multiple site labFor changes to multiple labs, a CMS-116 signed by the laboratory director must be submitted for each lab and must contain the information required above.Changes for which Written Notification is AcceptableWritten notification must be submitted on letterhead signed by the laboratory director and must include the laboratory name and address, CLIA number, name of the Laboratory Director, and the effective date of the requested change.Status Changes to Certificate of WaiverDemographic Changes to a Certificate of WaiverName of the LaboratoryAddress of the Laboratory (Physical Location)Mailing AddressTelephone and Fax NumbersChange of Ownership and/or Tax ID (FEIN)Addition or Deletion of Specialties/SubspecialtiesTotal Volume ChangeAddition of Test(s)Reinstatement – Activate without GapMultiple SiteChange in Accrediting OrganizationVoluntary Closure/TerminationLaboratory Director (Certificate of Waiver Only) – A copy of the director’s medical license and other qualifying informationPersonnel-Technical SupervisorNote: In lieu of written notification, a new completed CMS 116 is also acceptable.Via Email: Send requests for changes and any required supporting documentation to Labstaff@ahca.myflorida.com. Please submit only one change per email.Via Mail: Send requests for changes and any required supporting documentation to:Agency for Health Care Administration2727 Mahan Drive, MS #32Tallahassee, FL 32308For changes to multiple labs, a letter signed by the laboratory director must be submitted for each lab and must contain the information required above. I made changes to my CLIA certificate. Why didn’t I get a new certificate?A new CLIA certificate will not be issued for changes to CLIA certificates. A confirmation letter will be sent to be used in place of the CLIA certificate until the CLIA certificate is renewed. How do I get a copy of my CLIA certificate?If you need a copy of an existing CLIA certificate then you may contact our office to request a copy. Reprinted certificates are generated and mailed from the federal contractor and may take up to 3 weeks to arrive. However, reprinted certificates are not available if the request is made within 6 months of the current expiration date. How do I terminate my CLIA certificate?Written notification must be submitted on letterhead signed by the laboratory director and must include the laboratory name and address, CLIA number, name of the Laboratory Director and/or Owner, and the effective date of voluntary closure/termination. How do I file a complaint?To file a complaint against a clinical laboratory or allegations of non-compliance with CLIA regulations, please contact the Agency for Health Care Administration’s Complaint Hotline at (888) 419-3456. How do I submit a public record request for a laboratory that has a CLIA certificate?This information is confidential under federal law, including 42 CFR Sections 431.300-.307 and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996. You must file a FOIA (Freedom of Information Act) request with the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. Instructions on filing a CMS FOIA request can be accessed at the following link: https://www.cms.gov/Regulations-and-Guidance/Legislation/FOIA/filehow.htmlInformational ResourcesCenters for Medicare and Medicaid (CMS) Centers for Disease Control (CDC) Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Provider Performed Microscopy  (PPM) Procedures Booklet CLIA Regulations & Interpretive Guidelines – Overview of regulatory requirements, resources, etc.Categorization of Tests – includes waived and PPM testsWaived Testing Educational Materials – A list of resources provided by the CDC to assure good testing practices.Pay.Gov – Website for online payment of CLIA Laboratory User Fees 









                        Clinical Laboratories
                    





                                Waived Laboratories
                            



                                Proficiency Testing/Quality Assurance Program for Provider Performed Microscopy Procedures
                            













                                            Ruby
                                                                Grantham
                                                                
                        Manager, Laboratory and In-Home Services Unit
                                    

Bureau of Health Facility Regulation
2727 Mahan Drive - Mail Stop #32
Tallahassee, FL 32308
                                                    Phone: (850) 412-4500

                    Email: Labstaff@ahca.myflorida.com
Florida Relay Service (TDD): (800) 955-8771



 


















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












