


































Florida Organ and Tissue Donor Education Program | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Florida Organ and Tissue Donor Education Program












Home




Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Laboratory and In-Home Services



Florida Organ and Tissue Donor Education Program















Transplantation saves lives, but only if you decide to help and let others know. To register as a donor,  click on the button below that links to the Joshua Abbott Organ and Tissue Donor Registry. Also be sure to discuss your decision with your family. Donation of vital organs, tissue and eyes can save lives where no other hope is available.




Make a difference in a person's life.









                        Laboratory and In-Home Services
                    





                                Clinical Laboratories
                            



                                End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) Dialysis Facilities
                            



                                Forensic Toxicology Laboratories
                            



                                Home Health Agencies
                            



                                Exemption from Home Health Agency Licensure
                            



                                Nurse Registries
                            



                                Organ Procurement Organizations (OPOs), Tissue Banks, Eye Banks
                            



                                Florida Organ and Tissue Donor Education Program
                            













                                            Ruby
                                                                Grantham
                                                                
                        Manager, Laboratory and In-Home Services Unit
                                    

Bureau of Health Facility Regulation
2727 Mahan Drive - Mail Stop #32
Tallahassee, FL 32308
                                                    Phone: (850) 412-4500

                    Email: Labstaff@ahca.myflorida.com
Florida Relay Service (TDD): (800) 955-8771



 


















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












