



































Certified School Match | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Certified School Match












Home




Medicaid




Child Health Services



Certified School Match











OverviewThe purpose of the Medicaid certified school match program is to provide reimbursement for medically necessary services provided by or arranged by a school district for Medicaid-eligible students.School District Provider QualificationsSchool districts that are part of the public education system are eligible to participate in the certified school match program. This includes the Florida School for the Deaf and Blind, which is considered a school district for Medicaid purposes. Also, charter schools and lab schools (also known as developmental research schools) may participate in the program if their contracts with their school districts indicate such. The school district submits Medicaid claims for services provided by or through the charter or lab schools, as done for public schools. Private schools are not eligible to participate in this program. For more information on reports and help aids please visit the reports page.School District Administrative ClaimingIn addition to Medicaid certified school match, school districts are reimbursed for a portion of the administrative costs related to school-based health services and Medicaid outreach activities. For more information on the school district administrative claiming program, please review the following information:

    School District Administrative Claiming Guide 2013


    [
                    
                558 kB
    ]











                        Certified School Match
                    





                                Reports and Help Resources
                            



                                Reports and Help Resources Archive
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












