



































Media Resources | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Media Resources












Home




Agency Administration




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Data Dissemination and Transparency




Pediatric Cardiac Technical Advisory Panel



Media Resources















Media ResourcesFOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEOctober 9, 2017AHCA Announces Panel Members of the Pediatric Cardiology Technical Advisory PanelPanel will establish standards for pediatric cardiac proceduresTALLAHASSEE, FLA. – Today, the Agency for Health Care Administration announced the cardiology specialists and cardiac surgeons who will serve on the new Pediatric Cardiology Technical Advisory Panel (Panel). The Panel will fulfill the responsibilities outlined in Chapter 2017-151, Laws of Florida, signed by Governor Scott earlier this year. The Panel will develop procedures and standards for measuring the quality and outcomes of pediatric cardiac surgery programs in the state and make recommendations to the Agency on specific regulatory guidelines. Panel members include representatives from each of the state’s ten existing pediatric cardiology surgery programs, as nominated by the Chief Executive Officers of those hospitals, and three additional at-large members appointed by the Agency’s Secretary Justin Senior. The Panel members are:William Blanchard, MD – Retired. Formerly Sacred Heart and Nemours Children’s Clinic - PensacolaMark Bleiweis, MD – University of Florida Health Shands Hospital - GainesvilleEric Ceithaml, MD – Wolfson Children’s Hospital - JacksonvilleEric Eason, MD - Golisano Children’s Hospital SWFL – Fort MyersKristine Guleserian, MD – Nicklaus Children’s Hospital - MiamiJeffrey P. Jacobs, MD – Johns Hopkins All Children’s Hospital – St. PetersburgStephen Langley, MD – St. Joseph’s Children’s Hospital - TampaJorge McCormack, MD MBA – Mednax Medical Group / Pediatric Cardiology Associates – St. PetersburgDavid Nykanen, MD – Arnold Palmer Hospital for Children - OrlandoFrank Pigula, MD – Florida Hospital for Children - OrlandoEliot Rosenkranz, MD – University of Miami Holtz Children’s Hospital - MiamiFrank Scholl, MD – Joe DiMaggio Children’s Hospital - HollywoodPeter Wearden, MD – Nemours Children’s Hospital – OrlandoThe Panel will convene in the fall and meet as needed to form their recommendations. The Agency has launched a dedicated webpage to make available information about the Panel’s work, member appointments, and meeting information. Under Florida’s Sunshine Laws, all Panel meetings will be open to the public. Members of the public may also send questions and information to the Panel through the website.August 25, 2017AHCA Announces Call for Nominations to the Pediatric Cardiology Technical Advisory PanelTALLAHASSEE, FLA. – The Agency for Health Care Administration (Agency) is issuing a call for nominations for cardiology specialists and cardiac surgeons to serve on a new Pediatric Cardiology Technical Advisory Panel (Panel). The Panel will fulfill the responsibilities outlined in a new law, Chapter 2017-151, Laws of Florida, signed by Governor Rick Scott earlier this year. The Panel is charged to develop procedures and standards for measuring the quality and outcomes of pediatric cardiac surgery programs in the state. The panel will make recommendations to the Agency on specific regulatory guidelines.Panel members will include representatives from each of the state’s ten existing pediatric cardiology surgery programs, as nominated by the Chief Executive Officers of those hospitals and three additional at-large members to be appointed by the Agency’s Secretary Justin Senior. Additional eligibility information is outlined in the legislation. The Agency will accept nominations through the end of August and appointees will be announced in September.The Panel will convene in the fall and meet as needed to form their recommendations. The Agency has launched a dedicated webpage at: www.AHCA.myflorida.com/PCTAP to make available information about the Panel’s work, member appointments, and meeting information. Under Florida’s Sunshine Laws, all Panel meetings will be open to the public. Members of the public may also send questions and information to the Panel through the website.The Agency for Health Care Administration is committed to better health care for all Floridians. The Agency administers Florida’s Medicaid program, licenses and regulates more than 49,500 health care facilities and 43 health plans, and publishes health care data and statistics at www.FloridaHealthFinder.gov. Additional information about Agency initiatives is available via Facebook (AHCAFlorida), Twitter (@AHCA_FL) and YouTube (/AHCAFlorida).









                        Pediatric Cardiac Technical Advisory Panel
                    





                                Panel Members
                            



                                Meeting Dates and Information
                            



                                Media Resources
                            



                                Annual Reports
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












