


































General Information | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










General Information












Home




Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Long Term Care Services Unit




Homemaker & Companion Services Provider



General Information












General Information
Background Screening for Homemaker Companion Services
Applicants must have:
Level 2 background screening by scanned fingerprints for managing employee & financial officer

Already Registered must:

Get level 2 screening for all new homemakers and companions before hiring.
All homemakers and companions that were level 1 screened  have a phase-in time in state law for getting level 2 screening.
(a) Individuals for whom the last screening was conducted on or  before December 31, 2004, must be rescreened by July 31, 2013.(b) Individuals for whom the last screening conducted was  between January 1, 2005, and December 31, 2008, must be rescreened by July 31,  2014.(c) Individuals for whom the last screening conducted was  between January 1, 2009, through July 31, 2011, must be rescreened by July 31,  2015.

Click on link for more info on screenings, fees, and to find a LiveScan site near you:


Background Screening information

Also note -
Getting your "AHCA number" for scanning -- The above link refers to using your AHCA number for scheduling appointments for scanning or for the validation form used at the scanning site. AHCA number is the file number.  New applicants will get a letter from AHCA with the number to  be used for background screening after the application is received.  If  you do not receive a letter after submitting your application, call the AHCA Long Term Care Services Unit for the number. Those already registered should follow instructions at the Web site.
 Renewals   and Change of Ownership

IMPORTANT NOTE FOR RENEWALS:

Applications   must be received at least 60 days in advance of expiration of registration.

IMPORTANT NOTE FOR CHANGES OF OWNERSHIP:

The registration may not be sold, assigned or otherwise transferred per   state law (408.804(2), Florida Statutes).  Thus, an application must be   submitted for a new registration.  Applications must be received from   the buyer (transferee)at least 60 days prior tothe actual change of ownership   of the business.  It must include a letter signed by the seller   (transferor) notifying AHCA of the coming sale or transfer to the buyer   per 408.807, F.S. 
RETURN APPLICATION FORMS + FEE(s) TO:
Agency for Health Care Administration, Long Term Care Services Unit, 2727 Mahan Drive, Mail Stop# 34, Tallahassee, Florida 32308









                        Homemaker & Companion Services Provider
                    





                                General Information
                            



                                Florida Statutes
                            



                                Rules/Survey Standards
                            













                                            Brian O.
                                                                Smith
                                                                
                        Manager, Long Term Care Services Unit
                                    

Bureau of Health Facility Regulation
2727 Mahan Drive MS#33
Tallahassee, FL 32308
Florida Relay Service (TDD): (800) 955-8771
                                                    Phone: (850) 412-4303

                    Email: LTCStaff@ahca.myflorida.com




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












