


































Certified EHR Technology: Eligible Professionals | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Certified EHR Technology: Eligible Professionals












Home




Medicaid




Electronic Health Record Incentive Program




Eligible Professionals



Certified EHR Technology: Eligible Professionals
















Certified EHR Technology: Eligible Professionals 
The Medicaid Promoting Interoperability Program requires the use of Certified Electronic Health Record Technology (CEHRT). Standards, implementation specifications, and certification criteria for EHR technology have been adopted by the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services.  EHR technology must be certified by an ONC-Authorized Testing and Certification Body (ONC-ATCB) in order to qualify for the incentive payments. The Certified Health IT Product List is available  here.
For Program Years 2020 and 2021, all providers must attest using the 2015 Edition CEHRT.









                        Eligible Professionals
                    





                                Certified EHR Technology: Eligible Professionals
                            



                                Eligibility & Volume: Eligible Professionals
                            



                                Incentive Payments: Eligible Professionals
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












