


































Eligibility & Volume: Eligible Professionals | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Eligibility & Volume: Eligible Professionals












Home




Medicaid




Electronic Health Record Incentive Program




Eligible Professionals



Eligibility & Volume: Eligible Professionals
















Eligibility & Volume: Eligible Professionals

Physicians - MDs, DOs
Advanced Registered Nurse  Practitioners (ARNPs)
Certified Nurse-Midwives
Dentists
Physicians Assistants (PA)(i)

Additional  Requirements

Active status
No outstanding state or federal  sanctions
Not be hospital based (defined as  having 90% or more encounters in a year in a hospital or emergency room  setting)

Eligible Professional Volume Requirements
In  addition to being an eligible provider type and having certified technology,  EPs must meet a 30% Medicaid encounter volume threshold over 90 day period.  Pediatricians can qualify for the program with 20% Medicaid encounter volume  but it results in a maximum reduced payment of $42,500.

Volume can be based on a continuous 90 day period in the previous  calendar year or from the 12 months preceding attestation.
A Medicaid encounter is defined as a service(s)  rendered on any one day to an individual  enrolled in a Medicaid program.   Encounters no longer have to be billed and/or paid to be counted. 
Medicaid volume thresholds  must be met each participation year.
The denominator of the volume calculation is all  encounters during the 90 day period. 
Eligible professionals that practice in a RHC or FQHC at least 50% of the time  can count "needy individuals"(ii) to meet their patient volume  threshold.


Must be working in a Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC) or Rural Health Clinic (RHC) and the clinic must be led by a PA.  The "Attestation for Physician Assistant Led" form must be complete.
Needy individuals are defined in Section 1903(t)(3)(F) of the Social Security  Act as individuals meeting any of the following three criteria:


They are  receiving medical assistance from Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance  Program (CHIP).
They are furnished uncompensated care by the provider.
They are furnished services at either no cost or reduced cost based on a  sliding scale determined by the individual's ability to pay.










                        Eligible Professionals
                    





                                Certified EHR Technology: Eligible Professionals
                            



                                Eligibility & Volume: Eligible Professionals
                            



                                Incentive Payments: Eligible Professionals
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












