


































Incentive Payments: Eligible Professionals | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Incentive Payments: Eligible Professionals












Home




Medicaid




Electronic Health Record Incentive Program




Eligible Professionals



Incentive Payments: Eligible Professionals
















Incentive Payments: Eligible Professionals
The Incentive program does not provide additional incentive payments beyond the limits established by legislation, regardless of your EHR system's cost.  The purpose of the incentive payments is to encourage the adoption and meaningful use of certified EHR technolgy, not to act as a direct reimbursement.  The CMS final rule does not dictate how Medicaid providers must use their EHR incentive.
Eligible professionals (EPs) can receive $63,750 over six years. Pediatricians who qualify with a 20-29% Medicaid patient volume receive two-thirds of the maximum incentive payment, totaling $42,500. Pediatricians who qualify with a 30% Medicaid patient volume can receive the full incentive payment.
 Eligible professionals may participate in both the Medicaid EHR Incentive Program and the Medicare's Quality Payment Program (QPP).  For more information on the QPP, please visit Quality Payment Program.
Payment by Program Year
Year 1
$21,250

Year 2
$8,500

Year 3
$8,500

Year 4
$8,500

Year 5
$8,500

Year 6
$8,500

Total
$63,750










                        Eligible Professionals
                    





                                Certified EHR Technology: Eligible Professionals
                            



                                Eligibility & Volume: Eligible Professionals
                            



                                Incentive Payments: Eligible Professionals
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












