


































Reimbursable Services | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Reimbursable Services












Home




Medicaid




Medicaid Family Planning Waiver Program



Reimbursable Services












 Reimbursable  Services
Claims for family planning waiver services must be submitted  with the specific procedure codes and diagnosis codes.  All claims submitted for any other services  will be denied.
You can view the complete list of reimbursable family planning  waiver services, by selecting a link.  You may download the PDF file and save it to your hard drive for future  reference. Be sure to check this site periodically for updates.


    CPT Codes and ICD-10 Diagnosis Codes


    [
                    
                128.6 kB
    ]


For family planning waiver covered birth control methods  that are reimbursed through Florida Medicaid’s pharmacy program please visit the Florida  Medicaid Preferred Drug List (PDL). 
The family planning waiver approved antibiotics are:

Acyclovir
Amoxicillin
Aqueous  Procaine Penicillin G
Azithromycin
Benzathine  Penicillin G
Cefixime
Cefotaxime
Ceftriaxone
Cefuroxime
Ciprofloxacin
Doxycycline
Erythromycin
Fluconazole
Metronidazole
Tetracycline










                        Medicaid Family Planning Waiver Program
                    





                                Family Planning Extension 2023-28
                            



                                Five-Year Extension Request (1/1/18 – 12/31/22): Florida’s Medicaid’s 1115 Family Planning Waiver (Project Number 11-W-00135/4), Public Notice Docu...
                            



                                Medicaid Family Planning Waiver Program Archived Documents
                            



                                Provider Notice for Medicaid Family Planning Waiver Services
                            



                                Reimbursable Services
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












