


































Human Resources Information | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Human Resources Information












Home




AHCA Emergency Portal



Human Resources Information











Return to the Emergency Portal PageHuman Resources InformationAs Florida residents, you are aware of the uncertain changes in weather conditions. Many times it is unsafe to be on the roads and we must be with our families to ensure their safety and our homes. As AHCA employees who serve the state of Florida, some of us are essential employees and are required to work to ensure the safety of the citizens that we serve.At this time, State Offices are to remain open. A special Charge Object Code in People First has been created for Hurricane Dorian. The Charge Object Code is Hurricane Dorian 2019. Employees working on disaster-related activities should use this Charge Object Code to capture work hours associated with Hurricane Dorian. Generally speaking if the employee (not an SES excluded) is directed to work before, during, and after a disaster-related event, the worked time may earn Special Comp, Regular Comp, or overtime pay. The specific conditions are listed below.1. OPS Included Positions:If you are an OPS employee who is directed to work on disaster-related activities before, during, and after a disaster, you will be paid your regular work pay and potentially overtime (if you work greater than 40 hours in the work week).2. Career Service Included Positions:Non-Holiday Work Week: If you are in an included Career Service position and directed to work on disaster-related activities before, during, and after a disaster, you may be eligible for overtime pay if you physically work greater than 40 hours in the work week.Holiday Work Week: If you are in an included Career Service position and directed to work on disaster-related activities before, during, and after a disaster, Special Comp may be earned if you physically work more than the contracted hours for the work week.3. Career Service Excluded Positions:Non-Holiday Work Week: If you are in an excluded Career Service position and directed to work on disaster-related activities before, during, and after a disaster, you may be eligible for Regular Comp when you physically work more than the contracted hours (80 hours) for the pay period.Holiday Work Week: If you are in an excluded Career Service position and directed to work on disaster-related activities before, during, and after a disaster, you may be eligible for Regular Comp and Special Comp when you physically work more than the contracted hours for the pay period.4. SES Included Positions:Non-Holiday Work Week: If you are in an included SES position and directed to work on disaster-related activities before, during, and after a disaster, you may be eligible for overtime pay if you physically work greater than 40 hours in the work week.Holiday Work Week: If you are in an included SES position and directed to work on disaster-related activities before, during, and after a disaster, you may be eligible for overtime pay if you physically work greater than 40 hours in the work week. The holiday does not count towards work time for the purpose of overtime.5. SES Excluded Positions:Non-Holiday Work Week: If you are in an excluded SES position and directed to work on disaster-related activities before, during, and after a disaster, you are not eligible for Regular Comp, Special Comp, or overtime.Holiday Work Week: If you are in an excluded SES position and directed to work on disaster-related activities before, during, and after a disaster, you are not eligible for Regular Comp, Special Comp, or overtime.In addition, if the Career Service Regular Compensatory Leave Payment Plan and the SES Extraordinary Payment Plan are activated, we will send information regarding how to record leave and work time.If we are directed to close, the Human Resources office will communicate how leave and work time should be recorded during office closures.If you have any additional questions, please contact the Bureau of Human Resources at 850-412-3900.









                        AHCA Emergency Portal
                    





                                Human Resources Information
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












