


































Florida Medicaid Reform1115 Research and Demonstration Waiver Extension Request | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Florida Medicaid Reform1115 Research and Demonstration Waiver Extension Request












Home




Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Policy and Quality




Medicaid Policy




Federal Authorities




Federal Waivers




Archive



Florida Medicaid Reform1115 Research and Demonstration Waiver Extension Request












   Florida Medicaid Reform1115 Research and Demonstration Waiver Extension Request
Public Meeting - Nassau County, FL

(Due to the  large file size of the video  this page may take longer to download.)

Date: June 10, 2010
Time: 2:00p.m. - 4:00p.m.

Location:

Nassau County  Children and Family Education Center            86207 (479) Felmor Rd.            Yulee,  Florida  32097
Please press the Play button at the bottom of the screen below to watch the meeting.
The video is 55 minutes.  (Interpreted for the hearing impaired.)

                        Content on this page requires a newer version of Adobe Flash Player.      

 









                        Archive
                    





                                1115 Research and Demonstration Waiver Extension Request
                            



                                Archive
                            



                                Florida Medicaid Reform
                            



                                Florida Medicaid Reform
                            



                                Florida Medicaid Reform 1115 Research and Demonstration Waiver Extension Request
                            



                                Florida Medicaid Reform 1115 Research and Demonstration Waiver Extension Request
                            



                                Florida Medicaid Reform 1115 Research and Demonstration Waiver Extension Request
                            



                                Florida Medicaid Reform 1115 Research and Demonstration Waiver Extension Request
                            



                                Florida Medicaid Reform 1115 Research and Demonstration Waiver Extension Request Approved Waiver, Special Terms and Conditions, and Waiver Authorit...
                            



                                Florida Medicaid Reform 1115 Research and Demonstration Waiver Extension Request Reports Related to the Waiver
                            



                                Florida Medicaid Reform Implementation Plan
                            



                                Florida Medicaid Reform Meetings and Workshops
                            



                                Florida Medicaid Reform Meetings and Workshops Archive
                            



                                Florida Medicaid Reform1115 Research and Demonstration Waiver Extension Request
                            



                                Florida Medicaid Reform1115 Research and Demonstration Waiver Extension Request
                            



                                Florida Medicaid Reform1115 Research and Demonstration Waiver Extension Request
                            



                                provider
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












