



































Medicaid Data Visualization Series | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Medicaid Data Visualization Series












Home




Medicaid




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Medicaid Data Analytics



Medicaid Data Visualization Series












Medicaid  Data Visualization Series
As the complexity and volume of health care data continues  its rapid growth, the Agency has sought new methods and tools to manage and  extract meaning from the data that it collects. One such approach is the use of  Visual Analytics. This type of data analysis integrates new computational and theory-based tools with innovative  interactive techniques and visual representations.
Our analysts and  data scientists are now able to provide answers to the increasingly difficult  questions associated with the management of the Florida Medicaid program. The  Medicaid Data Visualization Series is a reflection of the management questions  that are being asked every day. It is intended to not only answer the questions  of Agency leadership, but to provide Florida’s citizens with the ability to  answer topical questions through the interactivity of the reports.
Below are links to the reports.


Medicaid Enrollment











                        Medicaid Data Analytics
                    





                                Medicaid Data Visualization Series
                            



                                Medicaid Actuarial Services
                            



                                Medicaid Data Science
                            



                                Medicaid Business Intelligence
                            



                                Medicaid Data Solutions
                            



                                Medicaid Eligibles Reports
                            



                                Medicaid Monthly Enrollment Report
                            



                                Medicaid Federal Reporting and Focused Studies
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












