


































Become Eligible for Medicaid | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Become Eligible for Medicaid












Home




Medicaid




Statewide Medicaid Managed Care




Long-term Care Program



Become Eligible for Medicaid











Become Eligible for MedicaidMedicaid eligibility in Florida is determined either by the Department of Children and Families (DCF) or the Social Security Administration (for Supplemental Security Income (SSI) recipients). The DCF determines Medicaid eligibility for aged or disabled persons who are not getting SSI.Florida residents who want Medicaid help for nursing facility or community-based long-term care services, must meet both medical and financial eligibility requirements.The DCF determines  financial  eligibility.The Comprehensive Assessment and Review for Long-Term Care Services (CARES) Program at the Department of Elder Affairs determines  medical  eligibility.Step 1:  Completion of Form 3008.Upon release from the wait list, the Aging and Disability Resource Center (ADRC) will contact the individual to assess interest in enrolling in Statewide Medicaid Managed Care Long-Term Care (SMMC LTC).  If the individual is interested in SMMC LTC, the ADRC will mail the Medical Certification for Medicaid Long-term Care Services and Patient Transfer Form 5000-3008 (Form 3008). Individuals must have their medical provider (Florida licensed physician, Advanced Practice Registered Nurse or Physician Assistant) complete the form.  The completed form must be returned to the ADRC, or the individual will not move forward to Step 3.Step 2:  Apply for Medicaid.The ADRC will check to see whether the person has Medicaid and let him or her know if it they need to apply for Medicaid.  Applications for Florida Medicaid Waiver services (financial eligibility) are processed by the DCF. You may go to the DCF Public Benefits & Services website site or call DCF at 1- (866) 762-2237 for more information about Medicaid.  All documents must be provided to DCF for financial eligibility determination.Step 3:  Comprehensive Assessment and Review for Long-Term Care Services (CARES) assessment.  After return of a completed Form 3008 to the ADRC, CARES staff must make an in-person visit to decide the level of care needed (medical eligibility). Step 4:  Review the Welcome Packet.If financial and medical eligibility is met, the individual will get a welcome packet in the mail from the Agency for Health Care Administration.  The packet will contain a letter and a brochure with information about the SMMC program and how to select a plan.Next: Ask for a Fair HearingBack:CARES Assessment of LTC NeedsReturn to the  LTC Home Page
















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












