


































CARES Assessment of Long-Term Care Needs | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










CARES Assessment of Long-Term Care Needs












Home




Medicaid




Statewide Medicaid Managed Care




Long-term Care Program



CARES Assessment of Long-Term Care Needs











CARES Assessment of Long-Term Care NeedsThe Comprehensive Assessment and Review for Long-Term Care Services (CARES) Program must assess or review each person who requests Medicaid payment for nursing facility services, or who wants to get home and community-based services through Medicaid waivers like the Statewide Medicaid Managed Care Long-Term Care Program. It is the law.A registered nurse and/or assessor does the assessments.  A doctor or registered nurse reviews each application to decide the right level of care for the applicant.  The assessment finds long-term care needs and suggests the right placement.  CARES staff usually do the in-person visit in the person’s home setting.  Assessments are done at no cost to persons requesting long-term care services.Next:Become Eligible for MedicaidBack:Wait List ReleaseReturn to the LTC Home Page
















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












