


































Find Out About Long-Term Care Services | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Find Out About Long-Term Care Services












Home




Medicaid




Statewide Medicaid Managed Care




Long-term Care Program



Find Out About Long-Term Care Services











Find Out About Long-Term Care ServicesThe Long-Term Care (LTC) program provides the following home and community-based services to help people live in their homes or in a community setting.  More information about these services is available in the     




    Statewide Medicaid Managed Care Long-Term Care Coverage Policy


    [
                    
                208.8 kB
    ]

.





Adult Companion Care -This service helps you fix meals, do laundry and light housekeeping.Adult Day Health Care - Supervision, social programs and activities provided at an adult day care center during the day. If you are there during mealtimes, you can eat there.Assistive Care - These are 24-hour services if you live in an adult family care home.Assisted Living - These are services that are usually provided in an assisted living facility (ALF). Services can include housekeeping; help with bathing, dressing and eating; medication assistance; and social programs.Attendant Nursing Care - Nursing services and medical assistance provided in your home to help you manage or recover from a medical condition, illness or injury.Behavioral Management - Services for mental health or substance use disorder needs.Caregiver Training - Training and counseling for the people who help take care you.Care Coordination/ Case Management - Services that help you get the services and support you need to live safely and independently. This includes having a case manager and making a plan of care that lists all the services you need and receive.Home Accessibility Adaptation - This service makes changes to your home to help you live and move in your home safely and more easily. It can include changes like installing grab bars in your bathroom or a special toilet seat. It does not include major changes like new carpeting, roof repairs, plumbing systems, etc.Home Delivered Meals - This service delivers healthy meals to your home.Homemaker - This service helps you with general household activities, like meal preparation and routine home chores.Hospice - Medical care, treatment and emotional support services for people with terminal illnesses or who are at the end of their lives to help keep them comfortable and pain free. Support services are also available for family members or caregivers.Intermittent and Skilled Nursing - Extra nursing help if you do not need nursing supervision all the time or need it at a regular time.Medical Equipment and Supplies - Medical equipment is used to help manage and treat a condition, illness, or injury. Medical equipment is used over and over again, and includes things like wheelchairs, braces, walkers and other items. Medical supplies are used to treat and manage conditions, illnesses or injury. Medical supplies include things that are used and then thrown away, like bandages, gloves and other items.








Medication Administration -Help taking medications if you can’t take medication by yourself.Nutritional Assessment / Risk Reduction - Education and support for you and your family or caregiver about your diet and the foods you need to eat to stay healthy.Nursing Facility - Nursing facility services include medical supervision, 24-hour nursing care, help with day-to-day activities, physical therapy, occupational therapy and speech language pathology.Occupational Therapy - Occupational therapy includes treatments that help you do things in your daily life, like writing, feeding yourself and using items around the house.Personal Care - These are in-home services to help you with:BathingDressingEatingPersonal HygienePersonal Emergency Response System (PERS) - An electronic device that you can wear or keep near you that lets you call for emergency help anytime.Respite Care - This service lets your caregivers take a short break. You can use this service in your home, an Assisted Living Facility or a Nursing Facility.Physical Therapy - Physical therapy includes exercises, stretching and other treatments to help your body get stronger and feel better after an injury, illness, or because of a medical condition.Respiratory Therapy - Respiratory therapy includes treatments that help you breathe better.Speech Therapy - Speech therapy includes tests and treatments that help you talk or swallow.Transportation to LTC Services - Transportation to and from all of your LTC program services. This could be on the bus, a van that can transport disabled people, a taxi, or other kinds of vehicles.





Detailed information on Statewide Medicaid Managed Care (SMMC) LTC program services is provided in the     




    Statewide Medicaid Managed Long-Term Care Coverage Policy


    [
                    
                208.8 kB
    ]

. The SMMC plans may offer certain benefits outside of the Medicaid state plan and the minimum LTC services listed above. These benefits are referred to as “expanded benefits” and are included in Health Plan and Program Information.Next: Make a Complaint or Ask for a Fair Hearing (about LTC Services)Back:Pick a Long-Term Care Plan Return to the LTC Home Page
















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












