


































Make a Complaint or Ask for a Fair Hearing About Long-Term Care Services | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Make a Complaint or Ask for a Fair Hearing About Long-Term Care Services












Home




Medicaid




Statewide Medicaid Managed Care




Long-term Care Program



Make a Complaint or Ask for a Fair Hearing About Long-Term Care Services











Make a Complaint or Ask for a Fair Hearing About Long-Term Care ServicesMake a ComplaintMedicaid has specially trained people responsible for answering your questions about Florida Medicaid, including complaint resolution. As a health plan member, you may submit a complaint against your SMMC plan by contacting the Medicaid Help Line toll free at 1-877-254-1055 (8:00 a.m. ET - 5:00 p.m. ET Monday - Friday), Telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) 1-866-467-4970 or by filing a Medicaid Complaint.Ask for a Fair Hearing About Your Long-Term Care ServicesAfter individuals are enrolled in the LTC program, if they have been turned down for a Medicaid service, or were receiving a Medicaid service, but it was reduced or stopped, they should receive a letter explaining why Medicaid will not pay for or cover the service.  When this happens, enrollees may have the right to a Medicaid Fair Hearing.Persons enrolled in a Medicaid health plan, must go through the     




    plan’s appeal process


    [
                    
                308.2 kB
    ]

 before they can have a Medicaid Fair Hearing. The letter to enrollees explaining why Medicaid will not pay for or cover the service is called a Notice of Adverse Benefit Determination and it tells enrollees how to ask for a plan appeal. Enrollees can also     




    call the plan


    [
                    
                59.5 kB
    ]

 to get more information.Requests for a Fair Hearing may be turned down if they are made before the plan’s appeal process is finished. When the plan’s appeal process is finished, the enrollee will receive a letter to explaining the plan’s decision. This letter is called a Notice of Plan Appeal Resolution.  Enrollees can request a Medicaid Fair Hearing if the plan’s decision is not in their favor.You can ask for a Fair Hearing by calling the Medicaid Helpline at 1-877-254-1055 (TDD 1-866-467-4970), or in writing by:Email – MedicaidHearingUnit@ahca.myflorida.comFax – (239) 338-2642Mail – Agency for Health Care AdministrationMedicaid Hearing UnitP.O. Box 60127Ft. Myers, Florida 33906When asking for a Fair Hearing, please the enrollee should include his or her name, phone number, mailing address, and email (if available).  The name of the Medicaid enrollee, their Medicaid ID number and some details about the services that were denied, reduced or stopped must be provided.   Any notices related to the Hearing Request may also be submitted.  It is also important to tell the Agency the preferred method of contact: mail or email.Important note about email communication – The Agency must encrypt all emails to protect enrollees’ personal information.  If email is the preferred method of contact, the Agency will send encrypted emails.  This means an enrollee will need to create a password to open the email.  Please read the     




    encryption instructions


    [
                    
                658.5 kB
    ]

 for more information.The Office of Fair Hearings will review the enrollee’s Fair Hearing request and send a letter confirming that the Fair Hearing request was received.  This letter has important information about the Fair Hearing process and instructions for communicating with the Office of Fair Hearings.  The Office of Fair Hearings will send more information during the Fair Hearing process.  It is very important that enrollees read all documents sent by the Office of Fair Hearings and carefully follow the instructions.Please read the     




    Medicaid Fair Hearing


    [
                    
                1.2 MB
    ]

 brochure for more information about Medicaid Fair Hearings.Next:Frequently Asked QuestionsBack:Find Out About LTC ServicesReturn to the LTC Home Page
















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












