


































Pick a Long-Term Care Plan | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Pick a Long-Term Care Plan












Home




Medicaid




Statewide Medicaid Managed Care




Long-term Care Program



Pick a Long-Term Care Plan











Pick a Long-Term Care PlanIndividuals for whom it has been decided are eligible to receive long-term care services (LTC) through the Statewide Medicaid Managed Care (SMMC) Long-Term Care program will receive a welcome letter and brochure with information about the SMMC program and how to select a plan from the Agency for Health Care Administration (Agency).  The letter includes:SMMC Plan Assignment(s) and Effective Date(s);Instructions for Changing Plans; andRights to Change Plans; andA list of other LTC plans in your region.To select a different plan, the individual must make a plan choice by the date in the letter.  SMMC     




    plans by region


    [
                    
                48.2 kB
    ]

 (view a     




    map of regions and counties


    [
                    
                156.2 kB
    ]

) are on the Agency’s Statewide Medicaid Managed Care website.  Choice counselors are available by phone at 1-877-711-3662 to help recipients select a plan that best meets their needs.  In-person visits are available by request for recipients with special needs.  Recipients can also enroll online at: www.flmedicaidmanagedcare.com.Once enrolled in a plan, enrollees may change plans during the first 120 days of enrollment.  After the 120 days, enrollees may only change plans during their once a year open enrollment period or with a State-approved     




    good cause


    [
                    
                105.7 kB
    ]

 reason.Next:Find Out About LTC ServicesBack:Ask for a Fair HearingReturn to the LTC Home Page
















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












