


































Statewide Medicaid Managed Care Long-Term Care Recipient FAQs | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Statewide Medicaid Managed Care Long-Term Care Recipient FAQs












Home




Medicaid




Statewide Medicaid Managed Care




Long-term Care Program



Statewide Medicaid Managed Care Long-Term Care Recipient FAQs











Statewide Medicaid Managed Care Long-Term Care Recipient FAQs1. What is Medicaid long-term care?The Statewide Medicaid Managed Care (SMMC) Long-Term Care (LTC) program provides long-term care services to eligible persons 18 years and older who need long-term services and support.Three state agencies work in tandem on the LTC program:Agency for Health Care Administration:Maintains federal authorityMakes rules and program policiesEnroll recipients in health plansHolds Medicaid Fair Hearings (Medicaid services)Department of Elder Affairs (DOEA):Conducts screeningPrioritizes the LTC wait listManages the wait listDetermines medical eligibility for the LTC programDepartment of Children and Families (DCF):Financial eligibility for MedicaidHolds Fair Hearings (screening results and eligibility)2. Is the long-term care program like “regular Medicaid”?No, the SMMC Long-Term Care program is not an entitlement program like Medicaid state plan (“regular Medicaid”) and does not include medical care, doctor visits or hospital stays.3. What services does the long-term care program provide?The LTC program provides the following home and community-based services to help individuals live in their homes or in a community setting. Learn more about the     




    Home And Community-Based Services Provided By The LTC Program


    [
                    
                208.8 kB
    ]

.Adult Companion CareAdult Day Health CareAssistive CareAssisted LivingAttendant Nursing CareBehavioral ManagementCaregiver TrainingCare Coordination/ Case ManagementHome Accessibility AdaptationHome Delivered MealsHomemakerHospiceIntermittent and Skilled NursingMedical Equipment and SuppliesMedication AdministrationNutritional Assessment / Risk ReductionNursing FacilityOccupational TherapyPersonal CarePersonal Emergency Response System (PERS)Respite CarePhysical TherapyRespiratory TherapySpeech TherapyTransportation to LTC Services4. How are services delivered?Program recipients receive their services through managed care organizations (health plans). 5. Am I eligible for the Florida Medicaid long-term care program?Persons must be screened and assessed to find out if they are eligible to receive services through the LTC program. The Department of Elder Affairs (DOEA) uses the screening scores to prioritize individuals for placement on the wait list; releases persons from the waitlist as enrollment becomes available and conducts assessments of medical eligibility for Medicaid long-term care services. The Department of Children and Families (DCF) determines financial eligibility for Medicaid.6. What are the steps I take to get LTC services?Step 1: Screening-Call your local Aging and Disability Resource Center (ADRC) for screening.The ADRC will ask you screening questions in a telephone call.Screening score and priority rank decide wait list placement.Step 2: Eligibility-If placed on the waitlist, you will be notified when enrollment is available.DOEA Comprehensive Assessment and Review for Long-Term Care Services (CARES) staff will assess your needs and decide if you meet medical eligibility.DCF will decide if you meet financial eligibility for Medicaid and send you a letter in the mail to tell you the outcome.Step 3: Enrollment-If you are approved for the LTC program, the Agency will send you a welcome packet with information on choosing a plan.7. What is screening?Space is limited for the in-home and community-based services in the LTC program. Before you can get these services, you have to speak with someone who will ask you questions about your health and activity needs. This is called a screening. The Department of Elder Affairs’ Aging and Disability Resource Centers (ADRCs) complete these screenings.8. How are persons placed on the LTC waitlist?Once the screening is complete, your name may go on a waitlist, depending on your screening score. This score determines the priority for being placed on the waitlist. Individuals with a low priority rank will not be placed on the waitlist. Individuals with a high priority rank will be placed on the waitlist to receive LTC services.When you are released from the waitlist, the Department of Elder Affairs Comprehensive Assessment and Review for Long-term Care Services (CARES) program will ask you for more information about yourself to make sure you meet medical requirements to receive services from the LTC program.9. What is an assessment?The CARES program is required to review each person who requests Medicaid nursing facility services, or who wants to get home and community-based services through Medicaid waiver programs like the LTC program. CARES staff conduct this review, or assessment when enrollment in the LTC program is available.A registered nurse and/or assessor does the assessments. A doctor or registered nurse reviews each application to decide the right level of care for the person. The assessment finds long-term care needs and suggests the right placement. CARES staff usually do the in-person visit in the individual’s home setting at no cost to the person.10. What is a “level of care”? To receive Medicaid LTC services, a person must meet medical requirements and be determined by CARES to require a nursing home level of care or hospital level of care for persons diagnosed with cystic fibrosis. This level of care is decided through the assessment.The level of care is based on the person's medical condition, therapies, treatments, and services that the person is receiving on the date of the assessment. Levels of care vary from persons residing in or who must be placed in a nursing facility to persons at risk of being placed in a nursing facility.  Persons at urgent risk of being placed in a nursing facility need constant availability of routine medical and nursing treatment and care, and have a limited need for, or require complex health-related care and services because of mental or physical illness. (See s. 409.983, Florida Statutes)11. Who can I contact if I have general questions about LTC services?Contact your local Aging and Disability Resource Center (ADRC) or call the statewide toll-free Elder Helpline at 1-800-96-ELDER (1-800-963-5337).12. Who can I contact if I have questions about Medicaid eligibility?Please contact the Department of Children and Families Public Benefits and Services.13. Who can I contact if I am having issues with receiving long-term care services from my health plan?Please contact the Medicaid helpline at 1-877-254-1055 to report those issues; or you may file an online complaint: Florida Medicaid Complaint Form.Back: Make a Complaint or Ask for a Fair Hearing (about LTC Services)Return to theLTC Home Page









                        Statewide Medicaid Managed Care
                    





                                Data Book - Dental Program Re-Procurement
                            



                                IDD Pilot Program
                            



                                New SMMC Program
                            



                                Plan Communications Prior to 2022
                            



                                SMMC Report Guide Archive
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












