


































Eligible Professionals | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Eligible Professionals












Home




Medicaid




Electronic Health Record Incentive Program



Eligible Professionals
















Eligible Professionals
Through the Promoting Interoperability Program, Eligible Professionals (EPs) can receive up to six years of incentive payments.  Initial payments were $21,250 and subsequent payments are $8,500 (Pediatricians attesting to lower volume receive reduced payments).
The last year to begin participation in the program was Program Year 2016, and the program is scheduled to continue through 2021. EPs are not required to participate in consecutive years.
EPs can access the state-level application through their  secure provider portal.
For instructions regarding how to submit an EHR incentive payment application, please view the  User Guide for Eligible Professionals









                        Eligible Professionals
                    





                                Certified EHR Technology: Eligible Professionals
                            



                                Eligibility & Volume: Eligible Professionals
                            



                                Incentive Payments: Eligible Professionals
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












