


































Eligible Hospitals | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Eligible Hospitals












Home




Medicaid




Electronic Health Record Incentive Program



Eligible Hospitals















  Eligible HospitalsHospitals eligible for Medicaid incentive payments are acute care hospitals, critical access hospitals, and children’s hospitals. Incentive payments to eligible hospitals are based on a formula in which a base incentive amount for all hospitals is modified by the number of Medicaid patient discharges, as well as other factors.  Refer to the     




    Hospital Fact Sheet


    [
                    
                169.3 kB
    ]

 for further details on eligibility and participation requirements.To qualify for payments, Eligible Hospitals (EHs) must be using certified EHR technology. Standards, implementation specifications, and certification criteria for EHR technology have been adopted by the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services. EHR technology must be certified by an ONC-Authorized Testing and Certification Body (ONC-ATCB).  For more information, please see the Certified Health IT Product List.Hospital incentive payments are calculated based on individual hospital factors.  Total incentive payments are paid out over a three year period based on a 50% payout the 1st year, 40% payout the 2nd year, and 10% payout the third and final year.Eligible Hospitals must register and begin receiving incentive payments by the end of Program Year 2016. Starting in 2016, hospitals must participate on a consecutive year basis and must receive an incentive payment each year in order to continue participating in the program.To assist Eligible Hospitals in determining their payment, the     




    Florida Hospital Payment Calculation Template


    [
                    
                22.2 kB
    ]

 .For additional information on hospital requirements including Meaningful Use requirements, visit CMS Eligible Hospital Information. For questions regarding Eligible Hospitals, please contact Jaime Bustos at Jaime.bustos@ahca.myflorida.com









                        Eligible Hospitals
                    





                                Eligibility & Volume: Eligible Hospitals
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












