


































Meaningful Use Overview | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Meaningful Use Overview












Home




Medicaid




Electronic Health Record Incentive Program



Meaningful Use Overview
















Meaningful Use Overview
The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 has the goal of improving the quality and  effectiveness of health care through the expanded use of Electronic Health  Records as measured by Meaningful Use. 
The five priorities of  Meaningful Use are:

Improving  safety, quality and efficiency while reducing health disparities;
Engaging  patients and families in their care;
Improving  care coordination;
Improving  population and public health;
Ensuring  privacy and security of personal health information.

Medicaid eligible professionals did not have to demonstrate meaningful use in their first  payment year. They only had to demonstrate that they Adopted, Implemented,  or Upgraded (AIU) to certified EHR technology.
In  order for an eligible professional to receive payment in the second year of participation,  they will have to attest to meaningful use of certified EHR for a continuous  90-day period. In subsequent years, the Meaningful Use reporting period is the entire calendar year. The     




    Meaningful Use Tip sheet


    [
                    
                72 kB
    ]

  has been developed to help providers prepare  for Meaningful Use attestation.
Refer  to      




    Program Participation Overview


    [
                    
                156.2 kB
    ]

   for  further information.









                        Meaningful Use Overview
                    





                                Program Years 2020 and 2021
                            



                                Meaningful Use: Stage 2
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












