


































Required Documentation | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Required Documentation












Home




Medicaid




Electronic Health Record Incentive Program



Required Documentation
















Required Documentation
Eligible Professionals:  Required Documentation 
The following documents must be uploaded with your application:


Copy of the Practice Management Report supporting your volume.
Copy of the encounter report supporting the denominator (total encounters) for General Requirement 1 (50% of all encounters during the EHR reporting period were at locations with CEHRT).
Documentation from your EHR vendor stating the date you installed the 2014 or 2015 edition CEHRT.
MU Measure Report for the EHR reporting period including all measures and Clinical Quality Measure (CQM) information.
Documentation from Florida SHOTS, if not excluding because you provided no immunizations.
If attesting to active engagement for public health or clinical data registry, documentation of active engagement or a letter signed by the provider supporting that they meet exclusion criteria.
If excluding from a Specialized Registry, a signed letter from the provider supporting that they meet the exclusion criteria.
Copy of completed Security Risk Assessment (SRA) or review.

AS APPLICABLE

Additional Documentation Form if practicing at multiple locations.
Physician Assistant (PA) Led Attestation Form.
Advanced Registered Nurse Practitioners (ARNPs) or PAs billing under a supervising physician must include a copy of a medical record supporting your provision of a Medicaid service










                        Electronic Health Record Incentive Program
                    





                                Certification Flexibility Rule
                            



                                Eligible Hospitals
                            



                                Eligible Professionals
                            



                                Florida Medicaid Promoting Interoperability Program
                            



                                Meaningful Use Overview
                            



                                Presentations
                            



                                Required Documentation
                            



                                Resources
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












