


































State Laws and Rules | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










State Laws and Rules












Home




Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Laboratory and In-Home Services




Home Health Agencies



State Laws and Rules











State Laws and RulesFlorida Statutes, Chapter 400, Part III Home health agency lawsFlorida Statues, Chapter 408, Part II   Licensing procedure lawsState Rules - Florida Administrative Code, Chapter 59A-8State Rules - 59A-35, Florida Administrative CodeEffective July 1, 2014, a home health agency that is not Medicare or Medicaid certified and does not provide skilled care is exempt from the requirement to be accredited in 400.471(2)(h), Florida Statutes. An amendment was passed during the 2014 Florida legislative session in House Bill 1179 to provide this exemption. Governor Scott signed the bill on June 13. The enrolled bill can be viewed at the Florida House website. Here is a direct link to House Bill 1179. See page 2 of the enrolled bill. Any home health agency that gives up its accreditation should copy the AHCA Laboratory and In-Home Services Unit on the letter that they send to the accrediting organization that says the date that their agency will no longer be accredited.  Fax the letter to the AHCA Laboratory and In-Home Services Unit at (850) 410-1511.  See slides 4 and 5 of the 2014 Regulatory Update above for more information. 









                        Home Health Agencies
                    





                                Home Health Agencies - Alzheimer's Disease and Training Requirement
                            



                                Home Health Agency Emergency Management Information
                            



                                Home Health Aides
                            



                                State Laws and Rules
                            



                                Medicare/Medicaid
                            



                                Surveys
                            



                                Home Health Agencies
                            













                                            Ruby
                                                                Grantham
                                                                
                        Manager, Laboratory and In-Home Services Unit
                                    

Bureau of Health Facility Regulation
2727 Mahan Drive - Mail Stop #32
Tallahassee, FL 32308
                                                    Phone: (850) 412-4500

                    Email: Labstaff@ahca.myflorida.com
Florida Relay Service (TDD): (800) 955-8771



 


















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












