



































Tips for Callers | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Tips for Callers












Home




Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Background Screening




Additional Information



Tips for Callers












Tips for Callers

The unit receives an average of 550 calls a day. Following are some tips to ensure that your call is given to the
    best staff member and that your issue is handled as quickly as possible:    


If you are a provider calling about an employee screening, be prepared to provide the staff member with the person’s
    social security number, name, and date of birth as well as what agency you are licensed with. It is also helpful to know
    when the employee had their fingerprinting performed.
Please tell the staff member why you are calling. We have certain staff members assigned to specific duties and
  caseloads are occasionally changed. The staff member that you speak with will know who can best assist you.
If a screening is received that requires additional review then it will be listed as “Screening in Process”. If during that review
    there is a need to request more information then a certified letter is sent to the applicant requesting that information and
    the screening will still be listed as “Screening in Process”. We are unable to make a determination until all information
    requested has been received. Due to confidentiality reasons we cannot discuss any specific details about a file with anyone
  other than the applicant.
If a screening is received and the fingerprints were rejected by the FBI then it will be listed as “Screening in Process”. If the
    fingerprints were rejected then the applicant must return to the Livescan location and submit a second set of fingerprints
    using their unique TCR #. The TCR # will allow the applicant to waive the screening fee. Please call the vendor to schedule
    a second screening. If you initiated the screening on our website, please log in and print the Rejected Fingerprint Form
    from the Screenings in Process tab. If you did not initiate the screening then the applicant will be receiving a letter with
    the TCR #. We are unable to make a determination until the second set of results have been received. If the second set of
    results reject as well then the Background Screening Unit will request a demographic search, or Name Check Only (NCO),
    from the FBI. This process may take approximately 4 – 6 weeks to receive a response from the FBI and the provider will
  need to check the website periodically to see if there has been an update.
When leaving voicemail messages for staff, please remember to speak slowly and clearly and provide your full name, the
    reason for your call, and your return number including the area code. If we are unable to figure out the return phone
  number then we cannot return the call.
If you are a provider and you leave your main office number in your voice message and that number has options that
    do not include leaving a voice mail message and we are unable to reach anyone then we will be unable to assist you.
    We suggest providing a direct line or a cell number.
Our staff members cannot provide callers with an ORI number over the phone due to the fact that all screenings need to
    be initiated by the provider through the Clearinghouse prior to the applicant being sent for fingerprinting.










                        Additional Information
                    





                                Out of State Applicants
                            



                                Regulations
                            



                                Tips for Callers
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












