


































Consumer Complaint, Publication and Information Call Center | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Consumer Complaint, Publication and Information Call Center












Home




Contact AHCA



Consumer Complaint, Publication and Information Call Center











 



Consumer Complaint, Publication and Information Call Center (888) 419-3456 / (800) 955-8771 Florida Relay Service (TDD number)







To obtain general information about Medicaid. If you have concerns about the services provided under your Medicaid insurance plan, such as transportation, dental services or prescription coverage, or if you want to change your plan, you may also reach our Medicaid Contact Center directly at 1-877-254-1055. To find out if you qualify for Medicaid services, need a replacement Gold card, need to add a family member, or want information about the Medically Needy Program, please call the Department of Children and Families at 1-866-762-2237.



Available Monday - Friday, 8:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M., EST.  To file a complaint about a health care facility, such as a hospital, nursing home, assisted living facility, home health agency, or other type of health care facility. Your patient care complaint may also be filed at any time, by completing the Health Care Facility Complaint Form located here: Health Care Facility Complaint Form . Please search our FloridaHealthFinder.gov site to see if the facility you have concerns about is one that is regulated by our Agency.



If you have questions regarding Background Screening results or the Background Screening Clearinghouse. Please visit the Background Screening Unit page at Background Screening Services 



If you are calling to file a complaint against your Medicaid HMO, need a status on a Medicaid claim or have any Medicaid related Questions. You can also visit the Medicaid page at Florida Medicaid Complaints 



If you need assistance with other areas of the Agency not listed.  If you would like to have a directory of all facilities of a particular type such as nursing homes or hospitals, you may download that information from our website at https://quality.healthfinder.fl.gov/.Read more about what happens when you make a complaint.Useful links from the Call Center.









                        Contact AHCA
                    





                                Complaint FAQ
                            



                                Consumer Complaint, Publication and Information Call Center
                            



                                Contact AHCA's Webmaster
                            



                                File a Complaint
                            



                                Helpful Links To Other Sites For Complaint Information
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












