



































Provider Self-Audit Resources | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Provider Self-Audit Resources












Home




Health Care Policy and Oversight




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity



Provider Self-Audit Resources












Provider Self-Audit Resources

This page is dedicated to providing self-audit resources to Medicaid providers.  There are three items included here.  The first is a Florida Medicaid Self-Audit Guidance document.  It is a non-binding document offered to provide guidance about self-audits.  The second document is a provider self-audit worksheet explanation (a Word document) and the third is the self-audit worksheet (an Excel document).   These last two documents are intended as a resource only and are in an editable format.  If you use the documents, please be sure to amend the worksheet explanation to provide details (explanation) for any items on the worksheet.  The version here, on our website, is designed to offer guidance about the type of information we need to validate a self-audit.  If the information is not helpful, you do not need to use it.
Self-audits may be voluntary (unsolicited by our offices), or in response to a request from our offices or another office with the Agency to consider doing a self-audit to repay overpayments and avoid sanctions and investigative costs.
Medicaid providers have an obligation to ensure that claims submitted to the Medicaid program are proper. When a provider determines that reimbursements were in excess of the amount due from the Medicaid program, the provider is obligated to return the improper amounts to the state. Providers should return the improper amounts to the Agency along with supporting information that will allow MPI to validate the overpayment amount. Examples and an explanation of the necessary supporting information are set forth in the Florida Medicaid Self-audit Guidance.


    Self-Audit Guidance 


    [
                    
                117 kB
    ]




    Provider Self-Audit Worksheet Explanation


    [
                    
                16.5 kB
    ]




    Provider Self-Audit Worksheet


    [
                    
                21.2 kB
    ]


 
 









                        Office of Medicaid Program Integrity
                    





                                Fraud Fighter Video
                            



                                Medicaid Fraud: Protect Your Tax Dollars
                            



                                Provider Self-Audit Resources
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












