


































Hospital Financial Data Florida Hospital Uniform Reporting System (FHURS) | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Hospital Financial Data Florida Hospital Uniform Reporting System (FHURS)












Home




Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Financial Analysis



Hospital Financial Data Florida Hospital Uniform Reporting System (FHURS)












Hospital Financial Data  Florida Hospital Uniform Reporting System (FHURS)
Who is Required to File?
All hospitals licensed under Chapter 395 of the Florida  Statutes, except hospitals owned or operated by the State of Florida.
What Is Required?
Hospitals are required to file their Prior Year Actual  Report (FHURS) within 120 days after the close of their fiscal year end.  In addition to the FHURS report, a copy of the  signed audited financial statements is required.  The auditor's report must contain an opinion.  An audit report containing a disclaimer of opinion will  not be considered acceptable.  Any differences between the FHURS report and  the audited financial statements must be reconciled and/or explained.
Review Process
The Agency has 90 days to conduct an initial review of  the prior year report.  Issues found in  the report will be communicated for correction.   The report is deemed accepted when all  corrections are made, the report is reconciled to the audited financial  statements and Worksheet A has been filed with signatures from both the CEO and  CFO.  Once accepted, the Agency will use  the data in the report to certify the annual Public Medical Assistance Trust  Fund (PMATF) and Hospital Assessments and evaluate the Hospitals initial  eligibility to participate in the Health Care Responsibility Act (HCRA).









                        Hospital Financial Data Florida Hospital Uniform Reporting System (FHURS)
                    





                                FHURS
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












