


































Statewide Comprehensive Hemophilia Management Program | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Statewide Comprehensive Hemophilia Management Program












Home




Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Policy and Quality




Medicaid Quality




Quality Improvement & Evaluation Contracts



Statewide Comprehensive Hemophilia Management Program













Statewide  Comprehensive Hemophilia Management Program

Introduction to the Hemophilia  Management Program
Effective March  1, 2019, the Agency for Health Care Administration (Agency) entered into a  contract with CVS Caremark (Vendor) to fulfill the responsibilities of the  Statewide Medicaid Comprehensive Hemophilia Management Program. The Vendor’s contract combines the provision of  pharmaceutical products, pharmaceutical management, and disease management  (e.g., treatment and prevention of bleeding episodes, medical consultation,  home infusion education, training, twenty-four  hours per day, seven days a week access to a registered nurse and a licensed  pharmacist) for the Florida Medicaid recipients diagnosed with  hemophilia or Von Willebrand disease.
Through the  Statewide Medicaid Comprehensive Hemophilia Management Program, the Agency will  assure eligible recipients access to all products related to factor replacement  therapy available.
How to Access
Hemophilia  drugs are an excluded service from the health plans benefit package. They are  covered through the fee-for-service Statewide Medicaid Comprehensive Hemophilia  Disease Management Program.  Though not a  covered benefit through the Statewide Medicaid Managed Care Program, health  plans are required to coordinate the care of its enrollees who require services  covered outside of the managed care delivery system.
Recipient Eligibility
Recipients must have:

current  Medicaid eligibility
prescription(s)  for the treatment

How to Contact
Should you have any questions, please  feel free to contact:

The  Agency’s Provider and Recipient Assistance Bureau         Monday – Friday, 8:00 a.m. EST - 5:00 p.m. EST         1-877-254-1055 (TDD  1-866-467-4970) or online at: 
https://www.flmedicaidmanagedcare.com/home/contact



CVS Caremark         Monday – Friday, 8:00 a.m.  EST - 5:00 p.m. EST         1-888-826-5621  Option 4










                        Quality Improvement & Evaluation Contracts
                    





                                Statewide Comprehensive Hemophilia Management Program
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












