



































Assisted Living Unit | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Assisted Living Unit












Home




Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation



Assisted Living Unit











 



Renewal applications must be submitted online.Effective March 5, 2024, in accordance with Rule 59A-35.060, F.A.C., all renewal applicants must apply online by submitting the online licensure application form, fees, and supporting documents electronically through the Agency’s Online Portal. Applying online can save you time and money, and helps save paper. Applicants must register an AHCA Portal account to apply online. If you are not already registered to apply online, click the link and follow the instructions to sign up: Access Online Licensing. Additional information on online licensing, along with instructional videos is available here.




Assisted Living UnitLicensed/Regulated ProgramsAssisted Living Facilities - designed to provide personal care services in the least restrictive and most home-like environment. These facilities can range in size from one resident to several hundred and may offer a wide variety of personal and nursing services designed specifically to meet an individual's personal needs.Adult Day Care Centers - provide therapeutic programs of social and health services as well as activities for adults in a non-institutional setting. Participants may utilize a variety of services offered during any part of a day, but less than a 24-hour period.Adult Family Care Homes - residential homes designed to provide personal care services to individuals requiring assistance. The provider must live in the home and offer personal services for up to 5 residents.Health Facility Reporting System



The Agency for Health Care Administration (Agency) requires all licensees providing residential or inpatient services to use an agency-approved database for reporting its emergency status, planning, or operations. The agency-approved database for reporting this information is the Health Facility Reporting System (HFRS).Filing a ComplaintIf you have a concern regarding care or services being provided to you or a loved one in an Assisted Living Facility, Adult Family Care Home, or Adult Day Care Center, please call  1-888-419-3456  or click the following link for further information: Complaint Administration Unit.If you have a concern regarding  Medicaid, including reimbursements, please contact our Statewide Medicaid Managed Care Program.If you have a complaint concerning  Medicaid, please call the Medicaid Helpline at  1-877-254-1055 (TDD 1-866-467-4970).  Staff are available to assist you Monday - Friday, 8 am to 5 pm EST. 









                        Assisted Living Unit
                    





                                Adult Day Care Center
                            



                                Adult Family Care Home
                            



                                Assisted Living Facility
                            



                                Determine Unlicensed Activity
                            













                                            Chequita
                                                                Byrd
                                                                
                        Manager | Assisted Living Unit
                                    

Bureau of Health Facility Regulation
2727 Mahan Drive MS #30
Tallahassee, FL 32308
                                                    Phone: (850) 412-4304

                    Email: assistedliving@ahca.myflorida.com




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












