


































iBudget Waiver Renewal Effective April 1, 2019 | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










iBudget Waiver Renewal Effective April 1, 2019












Home




Medicaid




Home and Community-Based Settings Rule



iBudget Waiver Renewal Effective April 1, 2019












iBudget Waiver Renewal Effective April 1, 2019
The Agency for Health Care Administration (Agency) is announcing the start of a 30-day public notice and comment period. The Agency is seeking to renew Florida’s 1915(c) iBudget Waiver. Significant changes to the approved waiver that are being made in the renewal application include:

An update to the number of unduplicated recipients.
An update to performance measures and the applicable remediations in Appendices A, B, C, D, and G.
Removal of the Comprehensive Transitional Education Program as a provider type.
An update to the waiver effective date to April 1, 2019 to align with standardized reporting timeframes. A temporary extension from March 15, 2019 through March 31, 2019 is being requested.

The Agency will conduct a 30-day public notice and comment period prior to the submission of the proposed amendment requests to Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). The Agency will consider all public comments received regarding the proposed renewal request. The 30-day public notice and public comment period is from November 7, 2018 through December 6, 2018. This public notice and public comment period is being held to solicit public input from recipients, providers, and all stakeholders and interested parties.
When submitting comments, please include “Proposed Renewal to 1915(c) iBudget Waiver” in the subject line:

Submit email comments to
          FLMedicaidWaivers@ahca.myflorida.com
        .
Submit comments by mail to Bureau of Medicaid Policy, Agency for Health Care Administration, 2727 Mahan Drive, MS 20, Tallahassee, Florida 32308.



    iBudget  Renewal Request


    [
                    
                2.1 MB
    ]











                        Home and Community-Based Settings Rule
                    





                                2015 Waiver Renewal - Familial Dysautonomia Waiver
                            



                                2015 Waiver Renewal - Model Waiver
                            



                                2020 FD Waiver Renewal
                            



                                2020 Waiver Renewal - Model Waiver
                            



                                Archive
                            



                                Developmental Disabilities Individual Budgeting (iBudget) Waiver
                            



                                Developmental Disabilities Individual Budgeting (iBudget) Waiver - 2017 Amendment
                            



                                Familial Dysautonomia Waiver
                            



                                February 2015 Waiver Amendment - iBudget
                            



                                HCB Settings Rule - Statewide Transition Plan
                            



                                HCB Settings- Assessment and Remediation Tools
                            



                                HCBS Settings Rule Archive
                            



                                iBudget Archive
                            



                                iBudget Waiver Renewal Effective April 1, 2019
                            



                                July 2015 – Public Meetings for HCB Settings Characteristics Review Tools
                            



                                July 2016 Amendment - iBudget Waiver
                            



                                July 2021 Amendment - Developmental Disabilities Individual Budgeting (iBudget) Waiver
                            



                                Model Waiver
                            



                                Model Waiver Archive
                            



                                Redirections State Plan Program
                            



                                Transition Plan - Familial Dysautonomia Waiver
                            



                                Transition Plan - iBudget
                            



                                Transition Plan - Model Waiver
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












