


































Electronic Health Record Incentive Program | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Electronic Health Record Incentive Program












Home




Medicaid



Electronic Health Record Incentive Program















 LEARNING OPPORTUNITIESJoin Agency staff and industry leaders each month for Health IT Matters.Date: Third Thursday of each MonthTime: 1:00 - 2:00 pm ETIMPORTANT DATESDeadline to submit Program Year 2021 applicationsAugust 31, 2021Deadline to submit outstanding Program Year 2021 documentationOctober 22, 2021PROGRAM UPDATESProgram Year 2021 marked the end of the Promoting Interoperability Incentive Program. Since the inception of the Program, AHCA has made over $591 million in total payments to Eligible Hospitals and Professionals (EPs). EHs accounted for a total of 539 payments representing 182 unique hospitals and as of October 1st there has been over 18,508 payments for EPs comprised of 9060 unique providers. All program payments must be made through AHCA by no later than December 31st. It should be noted that program audits will continue and the Featured FAQ below provides additional information on the ongoing audit process. If you have any questions about the program or any application, please reach out to MedicaidHIT@ahca.myflorida.com. Thank you for your participation and continued support over the last 10 years.FEATURED FAQWhat, if any, types of audits will be conducted on incentive payments received? The Agency is required to perform provider audits to ensure that incentive payments were made to EPs that met all program requirements. The Agency has contracted with KPMG LLP (KPMG), a public accounting and auditing firm, to conduct these post-payment audits. Providers will initially be notified by the Agency of their selection for audit. KPMG will then contact the provider directly with a list of requested documentation and information on how to submit documentation. KPMG, in conjunction with Agency staff, will conduct an auditee webinar further explaining the audit process including viewed request documentation.If selected for an audit, providers must respond within the time periods specified. Failure to provide documentation by the deadline will result in notification from the Agency that if documents are not provided in 30 days, it will be assumed that the provider does not qualify for the payment and the Office of the General Counsel will be notified to begin recoupment.In addition to audits conducted on behalf of the Agency, the Florida Auditor General, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), and the Federal Office of the Inspector General (OIG) may conduct audits of EHR incentive payments.









                        Electronic Health Record Incentive Program
                    





                                Certification Flexibility Rule
                            



                                Eligible Hospitals
                            



                                Eligible Professionals
                            



                                Florida Medicaid Promoting Interoperability Program
                            



                                Meaningful Use Overview
                            



                                Presentations
                            



                                Required Documentation
                            



                                Resources
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












