


































Florida Payment Error Rate Measurement (PERM) | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Florida Payment Error Rate Measurement (PERM)












Home




Medicaid



Florida Payment Error Rate Measurement (PERM)











Florida Payment Error Rate Measurement (PERM)Florida is one of 17 States in a three-year cycle randomly selected by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) for the Payment Error Rate Measurement (PERM) initiative for Federal Reporting Year (RY) 2024 (July 1 - June 30). This will be Florida’s sixth time participating in the PERM initiative.  (The five previous cycle measurements were in 2008, 2011, 2014, 2017, and 2021.) For RY 2024, CMS will measure Medicaid fee-for-service (FFS) claim payments, managed care capitation and premium payments made on behalf of beneficiaries, as well as eligibility determinations made under the Medicaid and CHIP programs.PERM is designed to comply with the Improper Payments Information Act of 2002 (IPIA; Public Law 107-300).CMS PERM Information Provider AlertsProvider BulletinsProvider EducationQuestions and AnswersFlorida PERM Contact InformationAngela SmithFlorida PERM CoordinatorPerformance Measurement & Quality Review UnitDivision of MedicaidEmail:   Angela.smith@ahca.myflorida.comNote: If you are a Medicaid provider or recipient seeking to report a complaint, the Agency has established a centralized unit to receive and process complaints. There is a complaint form available on the Statewide Medicaid Managed Care (SMMC) website. Press the “Report a Complaint” button on the right side of the page, and complete the complaint form. (Updates about the SMMC program and upcoming events and news can be found here as well.)Complaints may be submitted anonymously. Additionally, complaints may be submitted directly to Medicaid field offices.









                        Florida Payment Error Rate Measurement (PERM)
                    





                                Florida Payment Error Rate Measurement (PERM) Information on PERM available from CMS website
                            



                                Florida Payment Error Rate Measurement (PERM) Provider Alerts
                            



                                Florida Payment Error Rate Measurement (PERM) Provider Bulletins
                            



                                Florida Payment Error Rate Measurement (PERM) Provider Education
                            



                                Florida Payment Error Rate Measurement (PERM) Questions and Answers
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












