


































Florida Medicaid Complaints | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Florida Medicaid Complaints












Home




Medicaid



Florida Medicaid Complaints











 



                    More Information:
                



For Medicaid RecipientsFor Medicaid ProvidersMedicare D-SNPsOther Types of ComplaintsComplaint or Fair Hearing








Anyone can submit a complaint to the Agency using the Florida Medicaid Complaint Form.  When you file a complaint, you get a tracking number. You can use this tracking number to check the status of your complaint online. Already submitted a complaint? Find your Complaint Status here.If you need help submitting a complaint, you can call our Medicaid Helpline at 1-877-254-1055 (TDD 1-866-467-4970). Staff are available to help you Monday through Friday, 8:00am to 5:00pm EST. Medicaid Helpline staff can also help you check on the status of a complaint submission.If your complaint is regarding Medicaid eligibility or the application process, please contact the Department of Children and Families ACCESS Program.








All complaints submitted to the Agency are:Prioritized – We work complaints based on the urgency of the reported issue, not the order received.  For example, a complaint from someone who cannot pick up his medication at the pharmacy is worked before a complaint about an unpaid medical bill. Assigned – We assign someone to work your complaint. They may call you to get more information, if needed.Researched – We research your complaint. If you are enrolled in a Medicaid plan, we also contact your plan to get more information and ask the plan to reach out to you directly to address your issue.













                        Florida Medicaid Complaints
                    





                                Complaint or Fair Hearing
                            



                                Florida Medicaid Providers – How to File a Complaint
                            



                                Florida Medicaid Recipients - How to File a Complaint
                            



                                General Medicaid Issues – How to File a Complaint
                            



                                Medicaid Fair Hearings
                            



                                Medicare Dual Eligible Special Needs Plans (D-SNPs)
                            



                                Other Types of Complaints
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












