


































Preadmission Screening and Resident Review Process (PASRR) | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Preadmission Screening and Resident Review Process (PASRR)












Home




Medicaid



Preadmission Screening and Resident Review Process (PASRR)











Preadmission Screening and Resident Review Process (PASRR)The PASRR provisions of the Nursing Home Reform Act, amendments to the Social Security Act, and the implementation of federal regulations, establish a comprehensive plan for ensuring that individuals with a serious mental illness (SMI) or intellectual disability or related conditions (ID) who do not meet nursing facility level of care are not admitted to and do not reside in a Medicaid-certified nursing facility (NF).The PASRR requires that NF applicants and residents with a diagnosis or suspicion of SMI, ID, or both, as those terms are defined in the regulations, are identified prior to their admission into an NF.  The PASRR determines whether an individual needs the level of services that an NF provides, and whether individuals who need NF services also need specialized services. The PASRR is required for all applicants to an NF, regardless of the payer source.Section 409.985, Florida Statutes and Rule 59G-1.040, Florida Administrative Code, contain the Florida law implementing the federal laws that govern PASRR.A Level I PASRR screen identifies whether an individual applying for admission into an NF has or is suspected of having an SMI, ID, or both.The Level II PASRR confirms or rules out an SMI, ID or both. It is an in-depth evaluation of the individual and a determination of the need for NF services. If an NF is the most integrated setting appropriate to meet the individual’s long-term care needs, the Level II PASRR must also evaluate what specialized services, if any, would be recommended for the individual during their NF stay.A resident review is an evaluation and determination conducted when an NF resident experiences a significant change in his or her physical or mental status.In addition to the Agency for Health Care Administration (AHCA), the following agencies are responsible for the PASRR process in Florida:The Agency for Persons with Disabilities (APD)The APD is responsible for completion of the Level II PASRR evaluations and determinations for ID.The Florida Department of Children and Families (DCF)The DCF Mental Health program office is responsible for completing the Level II PASRR determinations for SMI.KEPROKEPRO is the state’s contracted vendor responsible for assisting AHCA, APD, and DCF with completion of the Level I PASRR screens, Level II PASRR evaluations and determinations and resident reviews for suspicion or diagnosis of SMI, ID or both.Links to RegulationsFlorida Administrative Code Rule 59G-1.040Section 409.985, Florida Statutes42 C.F.R. § 483.100 - § 483.13842 U.S.C. § 1396r42 U.S.C. 1396aFormsFaxes will no longer be accepted by KEPRO after March 31, 2019.

    Preadmission Screen and Resident Review (PASRR) Level I Screen, AHCA MedServ Form 004 Part A, March 2017 (incorporated by reference in Rule 59G-1.040, F.A.C.)


    [
                    
                322.1 kB
    ]



    Preadmission Screening and Resident Review (PASRR) Resident Review (RR) – Evaluation Request Form, AHCA MedServ Form 004 Part A1, March 2017 (incorporated by reference in Rule 59G-1.040, F.A.C.)


    [
                    
                175.3 kB
    ]

In downloading this document, parties accept therein the responsibility of not infringing Adobe's licensing policy. The AHCA will not be responsible for any licensure or copyright infringements brought about by inappropriate use of this document.









                        Medicaid
                    





                                Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations
                            



                                Medicaid Finance and Analytics
                            



                                Florida Health Care Connections (FX)
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












