


































Complaint or Fair Hearing | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Complaint or Fair Hearing












Home




Medicaid




Florida Medicaid Complaints



Complaint or Fair Hearing












Should you submit a complaint or request a Medicaid Fair Hearing?
A Medicaid Fair Hearing request can be submitted if you have been turned down for a Medicaid service, or you were receiving a Medicaid service, but it was reduced or stopped. You should receive a letter explaining why Medicaid will not pay for or cover the service. When this happens, you may have the right to a Medicaid Fair Hearing.  Only the Medicaid recipient or their legal/authorized representative can request a Fair Hearing.
If you are having other problems with Medicaid, you can submit a complaint. You do not have to be a Medicaid recipient to submit a complaint. Anyone can submit a

Medicaid Complaint

.  Examples of issues that can be submitted as a complaint include:

Need help finding a doctor or dentist
Questions about an unpaid bill
Problems with transportation services
Trouble getting medical or dental care
Unhappy with quality of services

 









                        Florida Medicaid Complaints
                    





                                Complaint or Fair Hearing
                            



                                Florida Medicaid Providers – How to File a Complaint
                            



                                Florida Medicaid Recipients - How to File a Complaint
                            



                                General Medicaid Issues – How to File a Complaint
                            



                                Medicaid Fair Hearings
                            



                                Medicare Dual Eligible Special Needs Plans (D-SNPs)
                            



                                Other Types of Complaints
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












