


































Florida Medicaid Recipients - How to File a Complaint | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Florida Medicaid Recipients - How to File a Complaint












Home




Medicaid




Florida Medicaid Complaints



Florida Medicaid Recipients - How to File a Complaint











If you are enrolled with a Statewide Medicaid Managed Care Plan, you should first contact your plan for help.  The phone number for your plan is printed on your Plan ID Card.  You can also find the phone number for your plan on the     




    General Plan Contact Information


    [
                    
                113.1 kB
    ]

 list.If you are not enrolled in a plan or were unable to get help from your plan, you can submit a complaint to the Agency using one of the methods below. Please refer to the     




    Complaint Tip Sheet


    [
                    
                127.9 kB
    ]

 for helpful hints on submitting your complaint.You may submit a complaint using your Member Portal account.  The Member Portal also allows you to select and change your plan, check on the status of a complaint, and receive important updates.  If you do not have a Member Portal account, we encourage you to create one by visiting the  Member Portal registration page .To submit a complaint online without a Member Portal account you may use the Florida Medicaid Complaint Form .To submit a complaint by phone, please call the Medicaid Helpline at 1-877-254-1055 (TDD 1-866-467-4970). Staff are available to assist you Monday through Friday, 8am-5pm EST.Already submitted a complaint? Find your Complaint Status here.If you want to authorize someone else to verbally discuss specific topics with the Agency on your behalf, or to select or change your managed care plan, please complete and submit the Agency's     




    authorization form


    [
                    
                250.9 kB
    ]

.









                        Florida Medicaid Complaints
                    





                                Complaint or Fair Hearing
                            



                                Florida Medicaid Providers – How to File a Complaint
                            



                                Florida Medicaid Recipients - How to File a Complaint
                            



                                General Medicaid Issues – How to File a Complaint
                            



                                Medicaid Fair Hearings
                            



                                Medicare Dual Eligible Special Needs Plans (D-SNPs)
                            



                                Other Types of Complaints
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












