


































Medicare Dual Eligible Special Needs Plans (D-SNPs) | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Medicare Dual Eligible Special Needs Plans (D-SNPs)












Home




Medicaid




Florida Medicaid Complaints



Medicare Dual Eligible Special Needs Plans (D-SNPs)











If the issue involves a Medicare Dual Eligible Special Needs Plan (D-SNP), you should use the DSNPs provider complaint process prior to submitting a complaint to the Agency.  All D-SNPs have a provider complaint system to allow providers to dispute plan policies, procedures, or any aspect of a plan’s administrative functions, including proposed actions, claims/billing disputes, and service authorizations.  D-SNP contact information is available online at     




    D-SNP Contacts for Providers


    [
                    
                530.7 kB
    ]

.If you are unsuccessful in addressing your issue with the D-SNP, you can submit a complaint to the Agency using one of the options below.To submit a complaint online you may use the Florida Medicaid Complaint Form. Please refer to the NEW     




    Provider Complaint Tip Sheet


    [
                    
                276 kB
    ]

 for helpful hints on submitting your complaint.To submit a complaint by phone, please call the Medicaid Helpline at 1-877-254-1055 (TDD 1-866-467-4970). Staff are available to assist you Monday through Friday, 8am-5pm EST.When submitting your complaint online, you also have the option of attaching any related documents. Please remember that submitting attachments containing patient information about non-Medicaid members is a HIPAA violation.  Additionally, attachments that include enrollee information for multiple D-SNPs on the same document cannot be accepted.Providers now have the ability to save a Complaint Profile, which can be used when submitting a complaint online.  This will reduce the data entry required for any future complaint submissions made from the same device and browser.  Instructions for this are in the     




    Complaint Profile User Guide


    [
                    
                558.7 kB
    ]

.









                        Florida Medicaid Complaints
                    





                                Complaint or Fair Hearing
                            



                                Florida Medicaid Providers – How to File a Complaint
                            



                                Florida Medicaid Recipients - How to File a Complaint
                            



                                General Medicaid Issues – How to File a Complaint
                            



                                Medicaid Fair Hearings
                            



                                Medicare Dual Eligible Special Needs Plans (D-SNPs)
                            



                                Other Types of Complaints
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












