


































Medicaid Fair Hearings | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Medicaid Fair Hearings












Home




Medicaid




Florida Medicaid Complaints



Medicaid Fair Hearings











If you have been turned down for a Medicaid service, or you were receiving a Medicaid service, but it was reduced or stopped, you should receive a letter explaining why Medicaid will not pay for or cover the service. When this happens, you may have the right to a Medicaid Fair Hearing.If you are enrolled in a Medicaid health plan, you must go through the     




    plan’s appeal process


    [
                    
                308.2 kB
    ]

 before you can have a Medicaid Fair Hearing. The letter you received explaining why Medicaid will not pay for or cover the service is called a Notice of Adverse Benefit Determination and it tells you how to ask for a plan appeal. You can also call your plan to get more information.  The phone number is printed on your Plan ID Card.If you ask for a Fair Hearing before you finish the plan’s appeal process, your request for a Fair Hearing may be turned down. When you finish the plan’s appeal process, you will receive a letter to explaining the plan’s decision. This letter is called a Notice of Plan Appeal Resolution. If the plan’s decision is not in your favor, you can request a Medicaid Fair HearingYou can ask for a Fair Hearing by calling the Medicaid Helpline at 1-877-254-1055 (TDD 1-866-467-4970), or in writing by:Email – MedicaidHearingUnit@ahca.myflorida.comFax – (239) 338-2642Mail – Agency for Health Care AdministrationMedicaid Hearing UnitP.O. Box 60127Ft. Myers, Florida 33906When asking for a Fair Hearing, please include your name, phone number, mailing address, and email (if available). Please provide the name of the Medicaid recipient, their Medicaid ID number and some details about the services that were denied, reduced or stopped. You can also submit any notices related to the Hearing Request.  It is also important to tell us your preferred method of contact: mail or email.Important note about email communication  – We must encrypt all emails to protect your personal information. If email is your preferred method of contact, you will receive encrypted emails from the Agency. This means you will need to create a password to open the email. Please read the     




    encryption instructions


    [
                    
                658.5 kB
    ]

 for more information.The Office of Fair Hearings will review your Fair Hearing request and send you a letter confirming that your Fair Hearing request was received. This letter has important information about the Fair Hearing process and instructions for communicating with the Office of Fair Hearing. The Office of Fair Hearing will send more information to you during the Fair Hearing process. It is very important that you read all documents sent to you by the Office of Fair Hearings and that you carefully follow the instructions.  If you would like to view files regarding your Fair Hearing online please use the Medicaid Fair Hearings Access and Case Tracking (FHACTR) Online File Docket. Please register for the Online File Docket using the same email address provided earlier in the Fair Hearings process.Please read the     




    Medicaid Fair Hearing


    [
                    
                1.2 MB
    ]

 brochure for more information about Medicaid Fair Hearings.If you have not been turned down for a Medicaid service, but you need help getting medical care or Medicaid Services, you can submit a Medicaid Complaint.









                        Florida Medicaid Complaints
                    





                                Complaint or Fair Hearing
                            



                                Florida Medicaid Providers – How to File a Complaint
                            



                                Florida Medicaid Recipients - How to File a Complaint
                            



                                General Medicaid Issues – How to File a Complaint
                            



                                Medicaid Fair Hearings
                            



                                Medicare Dual Eligible Special Needs Plans (D-SNPs)
                            



                                Other Types of Complaints
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












