






Home Page | AHCA - Office of Inspector General Complaint Form













Office of Inspector General Complaint Form





Toggle navigation









Go to AHCA's Home Page


Help





The Office of the Inspector General at the Agency for Health Care Administration investigates complaints of alleged violations of Agency policies, procedures, rules or laws by the Agency, employees, and contracted employees.


 
Complainant Information
If you wish to remain anonymous do not fill out any identifiable information here.

First Name

Last Name



Street




City


State


Zip




Phone


Email




I Am A 

Please make a selection
Anonymous
Applicant for employment with the State or Independent Contractor
Former Independent Contractor
Former State Employee
Independent Contractor
Medicaid Provider
Medicaid Recipient
Other
Private Citizen
State Employee





Subject Information
Who are you complaining about?

Person or Business 1


Work Location


Phone




Person or Business 2


Work Location


Phone




Person or Business 3


Work Location


Phone





Witness Information

Witness 1


Address/Location


Phone




Witness 2


Address/Location


Phone




Witness 3


Address/Location


Phone





Complaint Summary Information 
Describe in detail the background of your complaint, including all person(s) involved, facility/programs/agency, pertinent dates, times and location(s).

Details *





Attach Supporting File(s)















 


Every complaint is reviewed by the Office of the Inspector General. It is either investigated or sent to the appropriate office for handling. You will receive a written response from our office. The more specific information that you provide to us, the better we are able to assist you.



        Article I, section 24(a) of the Florida Constitution establishes a right of access to any public record made or received in connection with the official business of the Office of Inspector General, except with respect to those records exempted or specifically made confidential by Florida law.  Under Florida’s broad public records laws, written, digital, audio-recorded, photographic, videographic, or stored information provided to the Office of Inspector General is,  or will eventually be, available pursuant to a public records request unless a qualifying exemption to the public records laws exists that protects such information in perpetuity, such as is the case with the confidentiality of a qualifying Whistle-blower’s identity.
    
If you do not want your identifying information (such as your name, email address, physical address, and contact information) released in response to a public-records request, please do not send electronic mail to this entity. Instead, contact this office by phone at 850-412-3990.
For more information, please read AHCA's privacy policy.







Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
Copyright © 2024
   |    
Privacy Policy
  |  Refund Policy
  |  External Links Disclaimer
  |  Build 2021.0723.1403.1






Getting Help


If you're having technical issues with this application, please contact the AHCA Webmaster and tell them you have a problem with the Office of Inspector General Complaint Form version 2021.0723.1403.1.


Close












