


































Home Medical Equipment Providers FAQs | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Home Medical Equipment Providers FAQs












Home




Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Long Term Care Services Unit



Home Medical Equipment Providers FAQs











Frequently Asked Questions1. What do I need to do to get a Home Medical Equipment Provider License?Answer: See the “Summary of the Initial Home Medical Equipment Licensure Process” on the Agency’s Home Medical Equipment Providers webpage.  Once on the Home Care Unit home page, click on “Home Medical Equipment Provider.”  The forms necessary for licensure are listed under “Licensure Application and Related Forms;” instructions are included on each form.  It is unlawful to own, operate or maintain a home medical equipment business without a current valid license.2.  How do I renew my license?Answer: Download and complete the application forms on the Health Quality Assurance Licensure Forms on the Agency’s website as listed under the heading “Licensure Application and Related Forms”.  Each time a renewal licensure application is submitted, all listed forms must be completed.  To avoid delays in processing the application, complete every item.  If the answer to a question is No or not applicable (N/A), please indicate.  The application to renew a home medical equipment provider license is due 60 days before the expiration date of the current license per section 400.806(2), Florida Statutes, in order to avoid a late fine.  Home medical equipment providers that do not renew before the expiration date will be handled as initial applicants.  It is unlawful to own, operate or maintain a home medical equipment business without a current valid license.3.  How do I report a change of ownership?Answer: When a change of ownership of a licensed home medical equipment provider takes place, an application for change of ownership must be submitted.  Section 408.803(5), Florida Statutes, states, “‘Change of ownership’ means:(a) An event in which the licensee sells or otherwise transfers its ownership to a different individual or entity as evidenced by a change in federal employer identification number or taxpayer identification number; or(b) An event in which 51 percent or more of the ownership, shares, membership, or controlling interest of a licensee is in any manner transferred or otherwise assigned.  This paragraph does not apply to a licensee that is publicly traded on a recognized stock exchange.A change solely in the management company or board of directors is not a change of ownership.”The license does not transfer to the new owner; the new owner must apply for a license.  To apply, download and complete the required forms listed under “Licensure Application and Related Forms” on the Agency’s Health Quality Assurance Licensure Forms website.  A change of ownership application is due at least 60 days before the effective date of the change of ownership per sections 400.806(2), Florida Statutes and 59A-25.005(3), Florida Administrative Code, in order to avoid a late fine.  It is unlawful to own, operate or maintain a home medical equipment business without a current valid license.4. How do I report a change of address and/or change of name?Answer: To report a change of address and/or name, submit a completed Home Medical Equipment Provider Request to Amend License for Change of Name and/or Address, AHCA Recommended Form, November 2012, (available on the Agency’s Health Quality Assurance Licensure Forms website) along with the $25 fee in the form of a check or money order payable to AHCA.  The notification must be received not less than 21 days before the actual move in order to avoid a $500.00 late fine.  A license showing the new address will be issued and mailed.5. Do I have to submit personnel changes to the Agency for Health Care Administration?Answer: A change in the general manager of a licensed home medical equipment provider must be reported to the Home Care Unit within 21 days.  Submit written notification of the change along with proof of the required level 2 background screening, which is a criminal history check through both the Florida Department of Law Enforcement (FDLE) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), completed within the past five years and a signed Affidavit of Compliance with Background Screening Requirements, AHCA Form 3100-0008, August 2010.  Further information regarding background screening may be found on the Agency’s website, http://ahca.myflorida.com/MCHQ/Central_Services/Background_Screening/index.shtml.NOTE:  Section 59A-25.004(1)(a), Florida Administrative Code requires the general manager have "A minimum of two years experience in business management or a college degree in business or a health care related field can substitute for the required experience year for year."Section 408.810, Florida Statutes, requires a change in financial officer be reported within 21 calendar days of the effective date of the change.  Submit written notification of the change along with proof of the required level 2 background screening, which is a criminal history check through both the Florida Department of Law Enforcement (FDLE) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), completed within the past five years and a signed Affidavit of Compliance with Background Screening Requirements, AHCA Form 3100-0008, August 2010.6. How often do personnel have to repeat background screening?Answer: The general manager, financial officer and any employee or contractor that is expected to provide direct personal care or services or have access to client property, funds or living areas must undergo a level 2 background screening, which is a criminal history check through both the Florida Department of Law Enforcement (FDLE) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), every five years.  Detailed information regarding background screening requirements may be found on the Agency’s website, http://ahca.myflorida.com/MCHQ/Central_Services/Background_Screening/index.shtml.7. Who do I contact to get a Medicare provider number?Answer: Contact the National Supplier Clearinghouse, which processes Medicare supplier enrollment applications, at 1-866-238-9652 or visit the website http://www.palmettogba.com/nsc.8. Who do I contact to get a Medicaid provider number?Contact Florida Medicaid Provider Enrollment at 1-800-289-7799, option 4, or visit the website http://portal.flmmis.com/FLPublic/Provider_Enrollment/tabId/50/Default.aspx.9. Why do I need professional insurance coverage?Answer: Professional insurance, in the amount of not less than $250,000 per claim, is required in state law (Section 400.931, Florida Statutes) for all home medical equipment providers and contractors.  Home medical equipment providers are required to supply home medical equipment services (delivery, set-up and instruction, maintenance and/or repair).  Failure to provide appropriate services could result in serious harm or even death.  Professional insurance ensures a home medical equipment provider against legal liability of the insured and against loss, damage or expense incidental to a claim of such liability, arising out of the death, injury or disablement of any person, or arising out of damage to the economic interest of any person, as the result of negligence in rendering expert professional service.  Providers and contractors must maintain continuous coverage.Home medical equipment providers must also maintain continuous commercial liability coverage in the amount of not less than $250,000 per claim.  Proof of insurance must specify the provider’s name and street address.  Proof must be submitted to the Agency within 21 days of any change, including coverage renewal, during the licensure period.10. What should I expect during the Agency for Health Care Administration inspection?Answer: The “State Regulation Set” is the document that will be used by the Agency surveyor to complete an inspection.  For a successful inspection, download the “State Regulation Set used by surveyors” from the Agency’s Current Regulations in ASPEN Survey website.  This document can serve as a guide for implementation of Florida laws and rules governing licensed home medical equipment providers.  These regulations must be implemented before the survey takes place.  The initial licensure survey will be announced; renewal licensure surveys, which occur approximately every 2 years, will be unannounced.11. Are there any exemptions from an inspection by the Agency?Answer: Yes, exemptions from inspection are available to provider locations that:possess a current medical oxygen retail establishment permit issued by the Florida Department of Business and Professional Regulation, Division of Drugs, Devices and Cosmetics ( http://www.myfloridalicense.com/dbpr/ddc/MedicalOxygenRetail.html )are accredited through one of the following organizationsAccreditation Commission for Health Care (ACHC)Board of Certification/Accreditation, International (BOC) - the onsite accreditation survey must have taken place on or after September 1, 2014 and BOC documentation must state that the “State of Florida Surveyor Guidelines” were utilizedCommunity Health Accreditation Program (CHAP)Healthcare Quality Association on Accreditation (HQAA)The Compliance Team (TCT) - the onsite accreditation survey must have taken place on or after July 1, 2014 and TCT documentation must state that the “State of Florida Surveyor Guidelines” were utilizedThe Joint CommissionNote:  Any initial, change of ownership or renewal application to operate a home medical equipment provider at a physical location outside the State of Florida, which is received by the Agency on or after July 1, 2012, must include proof of accreditation or an application for accreditation from an organization recognized by the Agency for Health Care Administration.12. How do I obtain a Medical Oxygen Retailer Permit?Answer: Visit the Florida Department of Business and Professional Regulation website at http://www.myfloridalicense.com/dbpr/ddc/MedicalOxygenRetail.html to obtain licensure and application information.13. Do I need a home medical equipment license if I sell diabetic items only?Answer: No, diabetic monitors and disposable supplies, e.g., diabetic, ostomy, urological and wound care supplies have been identified as equipment and supplies that do not require services; therefore, locations that sell only these items are not required to obtain a home medical equipment provider license.14. Do I need a home medical equipment license if I sell orthotics and prosthetics only?Answer: No, prosthetics and orthotics are not defined in Florida law as home medical equipment for licensure purposes; therefore, locations that sell only these items are not required to obtain a home medical equipment provider license.  Businesses that are involved in any capacity with supplying or the practice of orthotics and/or prosthetics may be subject to the licensure requirements under Chapter 468, Florida Statutes.  Please visit the Florida Board of Orthotists and Prosthetists website at https://floridaorthotistsprosthetists.gov to obtain application and licensure information, laws, rules and other requirements.  If home medical equipment other than orthotics and prosthetics are sold at the same location, a home medical equipment provider license is required.









                        Long Term Care Services Unit
                    





                                Nursing Home Civil Money Penalty (CMP) Reinvestment Projects
                            



                                Health Care Services Pool
                            



                                Home Medical Equipment Providers FAQs
                            



                                Home Medical Equipment (HME) Providers
                            



                                Intermediate Care Facilities
                            



                                Archived Information
                            



                                Additional Nursing Home Applications & Forms
                            



                                Nursing Homes
                            



                                Prescribed Pediatric Extended Care Centers
                            



                                Transitional Living Facilities
                            



                                Waivers and Variances
                            



                                Governor's Panel
                            



                                Gold Seal Panel Member's
                            



                                Homemaker & Companion Services Provider
                            



                                Hospice
                            



                                Hospice FAQ
                            













                                            Brian O.
                                                                Smith
                                                                
                        Manager, Long Term Care Services Unit
                                    

Bureau of Health Facility Regulation
2727 Mahan Drive MS#33
Tallahassee, FL 32308
Florida Relay Service (TDD): (800) 955-8771
                                                    Phone: (850) 412-4303

                    Email: LTCStaff@ahca.myflorida.com




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












