



































Nursing Homes | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Nursing Homes












Home




Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Long Term Care Services Unit



Nursing Homes












Nursing Homes
Nursing Homes provide 24 hour a day nursing care, case management, health monitoring, personal care, nutritional meals and special diets, physical, occupational, and speech therapy, social activities and respite care for those who are ill or physically infirm.
Health Facility Reporting System



The Agency for Health Care Administration (Agency) requires all licensees providing residential or inpatient services to use an Agency approved database for reporting its emergency status, planning or operations. The Agency approved database for reporting this information is the Health Facility Reporting System (HFRS).
Applications and Forms


Nursing Home


Additional Nursing Home Forms


Regulations

Use this link to view the final text for
           Rule 59A-4.1265, F.A.C., Emergency Environmental Control for Nursing Homes



    Guidance for Nursing Homes Seeking Variances from Rule 59A-4.1265, F.A.C.


    [
                    
                295.6 kB
    ]




    Emergency Power Plan Generator Status Report


    [
                    
                22.9 kB
    ]


        (To be submitted with variance requests)

Nursing           Home Statutes -- Florida Statutes (F.S.), Chapter 400, Part II


Nursing Home Rules -- Florida Administrative Code (F.A.C.), Chapter 59A-4


Nursing Home  Regulations and Guidance[  ]

Gold Seal Applications must be submitted by March 15th per
          Florida Administrative Code 59A-4.200
  
Department of Health approval required for:
Water  Supply Systems regulated by Chapter 64E-8 F.A.C.
Onsite  Sewage Disposal Systems regulated by Chapter 64E-6, F.A.C.         Please view the Department of Health's
          Interagency Coordination Regarding Regulated Establishments[  ]
        document. The  approval form is at the end of this document.

Resources


Mandatory Radon Requirements for 24-hour State Regulated Providers


Map of Affected Counties for Radon Testing











                        Long Term Care Services Unit
                    





                                Nursing Home Civil Money Penalty (CMP) Reinvestment Projects
                            



                                Health Care Services Pool
                            



                                Home Medical Equipment Providers FAQs
                            



                                Home Medical Equipment (HME) Providers
                            



                                Intermediate Care Facilities
                            



                                Archived Information
                            



                                Additional Nursing Home Applications & Forms
                            



                                Nursing Homes
                            



                                Prescribed Pediatric Extended Care Centers
                            



                                Transitional Living Facilities
                            



                                Waivers and Variances
                            



                                Governor's Panel
                            



                                Gold Seal Panel Member's
                            



                                Homemaker & Companion Services Provider
                            



                                Hospice
                            



                                Hospice FAQ
                            













                                            Brian O.
                                                                Smith
                                                                
                        Manager, Long Term Care Services Unit
                                    

Bureau of Health Facility Regulation
2727 Mahan Drive MS#33
Tallahassee, FL 32308
Florida Relay Service (TDD): (800) 955-8771
                                                    Phone: (850) 412-4303

                    Email: LTCStaff@ahca.myflorida.com




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












