


































Managed Care Recipients | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Managed Care Recipients












Home




Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Operations



Managed Care Recipients











Managed Care RecipientsEnrollment Broker OperationsEnrollment Broker Operations is responsible for the oversight and monitoring of the Medicaid Choice Counseling vendor and the Medicaid Helpline. Medicaid Choice CounselingDo you need help choosing or changing your health or dental plan? Medicaid has specially trained people to answer your questions and to help you enroll in the health or dental plan that best fits your needs. These people are called choice counselors and they provide services free of charge. You may speak with a choice counselor by phone or meet with a choice counselor face-to-face (see face-to-face schedule listed below). To speak with a choice counselor:Contact the Statewide Medicaid Managed Care Help Line toll free at 1-877-711-3662, Telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) 1-866-467-4970 or visit the website at flmedicaidmanagedcare.com.If you want to authorize someone else to verbally discuss specific topics with the Agency on your behalf, or to select or change your managed care plan, please complete and submit the Agency's     




    authorization form


    [
                    
                250.9 kB
    ]

.Mire esta información en español.Wè enfòmasyon sa an kreyòl.Recipient Contact CenterNeed help resolving a health or dental plan issue? Medicaid has specially trained people responsible for answering your questions about Florida Medicaid, including but not limited to plan enrollment information, Medicaid Fee-For-Service network assistance and complaint resolution.  As a health or dental plan member, you may submit a complaint against your SMMC plan by contacting the Medicaid Help Line toll free at 1-877-254-1055 (8:00 a.m. ET - 5:00 p.m. ET Monday - Friday), Telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) 1-866-467-4970 or by filling in the SMMC program Complaint Form.You may also file a complaint, grievance, or appeal with your health or dental plan.  See your plan's handbook for additional filing criteria.









                        Managed Care Recipients
                    





                                Counseling
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












