


































Medicaid Plan Management Operations | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Medicaid Plan Management Operations












Home




Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Operations



Medicaid Plan Management Operations












Medicaid Plan Management Operations
The Bureau of Plan Management Operations is  responsible for the primary oversight of Medicaid’s managed care programs, with  a focus on the Statewide Medicaid Managed Care (SMMC) program.
Contract management includes ensuring that the managed  care plans meet Medicaid contractual requirements, including the timely  provision of medically needed services and provider payment for such  services.  The contract managers in this bureau serve as the primary point  of contact for the plans regarding their contract.
Comprehensive Plan Management
This bureau section is responsible for  contract management of the comprehensive long-term care (LTC) Medicaid managed  care plans and one long-term care only plan. Comprehensive long-term care plans  provide both medical assistance and long-term care services to Medicaid  enrollees.
Standard Plan Management
This  bureau section is responsible for contract management of the medical managed  assistance (MMA) Medicaid managed care plans, which provide medical assistance  services to Medicaid enrollees.
Specialty Plan Management
This bureau section is responsible for  contract management of the Managed Medical Assistance Medicaid managed care  plans that provide health care services to special populations:  children  with chronic conditions and serious medical needs, persons living with HIV and  AIDS and the severely mentally ill.
Compliance Coordination


This bureau section is responsible for  coordination of contract compliance and enforcement under the SMMC Program. This bureau  works with other Agency bureaus and sections to ensure the plan’s compliance  with contract requirements, including working with managed care plans statewide  to address claims management, marketing and general plan management  issues. 









                        Medicaid Operations
                    





                                Managed Care Recipients
                            



                                Medicaid Plan Management Operations
                            



                                Recipient and Provider Assistance
                            



                                Third Party Liability (TPL)
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












