


































Decisions October, 2022 | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Decisions October, 2022












Home




Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Certificate of Need and Commercial Managed Care Unit




Certificate of Need (CON) Program Overview




Decisions



Decisions October, 2022











Decisions October, 2022CON No.District/ SubdistrictCountyApplicant/FacilityProposed ProjectDecisionDecision DateFinal Order DateFinal Agency Action

    10728


    [
                    
                540.4 kB
    ]

3/7LAKEInnovative Medical Management Solutions, LLC d/b/a The Lakes of Clermont Health and Rehabilitation CenterAdd 40 community nursing home bedsA02/10/2023  

    10729


    [
                    
                495.9 kB
    ]

11/1LAKEMercy Center OPCO, LLCAdd 15 community nursing home beds through the delicensure of 15 beds from North Dade Nursing and Rehabilitation CenterA02/10/2023  A = ApprovedP = Partial approvalD = DeniedW = Withdrawn* DOAH = Division of Administrative Hearings (DOAH). Not all CON decisions are challenged. Challenges should be noted on this website within two months of the initial Agency decision. Recommended Orders and Agency Final Orders can be viewed on the DOAH websites by entering the Case Number at: https://www.doah.state.fl.us/ALJ/Final Agency action may be appealed to the District Court of Appeals (DCA). DCA mandates are not tracked on this website. Please contact the Agency Clerk with any questions about DCA mandates at 850.412.3689.
















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












