


































Performance Measure Data Submissions for Medicaid Indicator Descriptions | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Performance Measure Data Submissions for Medicaid Indicator Descriptions












Home




Medicaid




Medicaid Quality Activities and Projects



Performance Measure Data Submissions for Medicaid Indicator Descriptions












Performance Measure Data Submissions for MedicaidIndicator  Descriptions 
These are a set of measures used to report the performance of health plans. Medicaid Beneficiaries can use this information to compare health plans and determine the relative value of care offered by managed care health plans. The measures allow the users to understand how well health plans achieve results that matter, such as, how effective and accessible is the care delivered.

Adherence to  Antipsychotic Medications for Individuals With Schizophrenia

The  percentage of members 19-64 years of age during the measurement year with  schizophrenia who were dispensed and remained on an antipsychotic medication  for at least 80% of their treatment period.

Adolescent Well-Care  Visits

The percentage of  enrolled members 12-21 years of age who received at least one comprehensive  well-care visit with a PCP or OB/GYN practitioner during the measurement year.

Adult BMI Assessment

The percentage of members  18-74 years of age who received an outpatient visit and their body mass index  documented during the measurement year or the year prior.

Adults' Access to  Preventive/Ambulatory Health Services – ages 20-44

The percentage of members  20-44 years of age who received an ambulatory or preventive care visit during  the measurement year.

Adults' Access to  Preventive/Ambulatory Health Services – ages 45-64

The percentage of members  45-64 years of age who received an ambulatory or preventive care visit during  the measurement year.

Adults' Access to  Preventive/Ambulatory Health Services – ages 65+

The percentage of members  65 years and older who received an ambulatory or preventive care visit during  the measurement year.

Adults' Access to  Preventive/Ambulatory Health Services – Total

The percentage of members  20 years and older who received an ambulatory or preventive care visit during  the measurement year.

Annual Dental Visit –  Total

The percentage of members  2-21 years of age who received at least one dental visit during the measurement  year.

Annual Monitoring for  Patients on Persistent Medications – ACEs/ARBs

The  percentage of members 18 years of age and older who received at least 180  treatment days of ACE inhibitors or ARBs during the measurement year and at  least one therapeutic monitoring event for the therapeutic agent in the measurement  year. 

Annual Monitoring for  Patients on Persistent Medications – Diuretics

The  percentage of members 18 years of age and older who received at least 180  treatment days of diuretics during the measurement year and at least one  therapeutic monitoring event for the therapeutic agent in the measurement  year. 

Annual Monitoring for  Patients on Persistent Medications – Total

The  percentage of members 18 years of age and older who received at least 180  treatment days of ACE inhibitors or ARBs or diuretics during the measurement  year and at least one therapeutic monitoring event for the therapeutic agent in  the measurement year. 

Antidepressant Medication  Management – Effective Acute Phase Treatment

The percentage of members  18 years of age and older who were diagnosed with a new episode of major  depression and remained on antidepressant medication for at least 84 days.

Antidepressant Medication  Management – Effective Continuation Phase Treatment

The percentage of members  18 years of age and older who were diagnosed with a new episode of major  depression and remained on antidepressant medication for at least 180 days.

Breast Cancer Screening

The percentage of women 50-74  years of age who received a mammogram to screen for breast cancer.

Call Answer Timeliness

The  percentage of calls received by the plan's Member Services call centers (during  operating hours) during the measurement year that were answered by a live voice  within 30 seconds.

Cervical Cancer Screening

The percentage of women 21-64  years of age with one or more Pap tests during the measurement year or the two  years prior to the measurement year.

Childhood Immunization  Status – Combination 2

The percentage of children  who received four DTaP; three IPV; one MMR; three Hib; three hepatitis B; and  one VZV vaccination on or before the child's second birthday.

Childhood Immunization  Status – Combination 3

The percentage of children  who received all antigens listed in Combination 2 and four pneumococcal  conjugate vaccinations on or before the child's second birthday.

Children and Adolescents’  Access to PCPs – ages 12-24 months

The  percentage of children 12-24 months of age who had a visit with a PCP during  the measurement year.

Children and Adolescents’  Access to PCPs – ages 25 months – 6 years

The  percentage of children 25 months – 6 years of age who had a visit with a PCP  during the measurement year.

Children and Adolescents’  Access to PCPs – ages 7-11 years

The  percentage of children 7-11 years of age who had a visit with a PCP during the  measurement year or the year prior to the measurement year.

Children and Adolescents’  Access to PCPs – ages 12-19 years

The  percentage of children 12-19 years of age who had a visit with a PCP during the  measurement year or the year prior to the measurement year.

Comprehensive Diabetes  Care – Eye Exam

The percentage of members  18-75 years of age with diabetes who received a retinal or dilated eye exam by  an eye care professional during the measurement year or a negative retinal exam  by an eye professional in the year prior to the measurement year.

Comprehensive Diabetes  Care – HbA1c Good Control (<8%)

The percentage of members  18-75 years of age with diabetes and most recent HbA1c level of <8.0%.

Comprehensive Diabetes  Care – HbA1c Poor Control
(Inverse Measure) 

The percentage of members  18-75 years of age with diabetes and most recent HbA1c level of >9.0% or is  missing or was not done during the measurement year.

Comprehensive Diabetes  Care – HbA1c Testing

The percentage of members  18-75 years of age with a HbA1c test performed during the measurement year.

Comprehensive Diabetes  Care – Nephropathy

The percentage of members  18-75 years of age with a nephropathy screening or monitoring test or evidence  of nephropathy during the measurement year.

Controlling High Blood  Pressure – Total   

The percentage of members  18-85 years of age with a diagnosis of hypertension and whose blood pressure  was adequately controlled during the measurement year.

Dental Treatment Services

The  percentage of enrollees 1-20 years of age who are enrolled in Medicaid or CHIP  Medicaid expansion programs for at least 90 continuous days, are eligible for  EPSDT services, and who received at least one dental treatment service during  the federal fiscal year.

Diabetes Screening for  People With Schizophrenia or Bipolar Disorder Who Are Using Antipsychotic  Medications

The  percentage of members 18-64 years of age with schizophrenia or bipolar  disorder, who were dispensed an antipsychotic medication and had a diabetes  screening test during the measurement year.

Engagement of Alcohol and  Other Drug Dependence Treatment – Total

The  percentage of members who initiated treatment and who had two or more  additional alcohol or other drug dependence services or medication treatment  within 34 days of the initiation visit.

Follow-up After Emergency  Department Visit for Alcohol and Other Drug Dependence Treatment – 7 Day –  Total 

The  percentage of emergency department visits for members 13 years of age and older  with a principal diagnosis of alcohol or other drug abuse or dependence, who  had a follow-up visit for alcohol or other drug abuse within 7 days.

Follow-up After Emergency  Department Visit for Alcohol and Other Drug Dependence Treatment – 30 Day –  Total 

The  percentage of emergency department visits for members 13 years of age and older  with a principal diagnosis of alcohol or other drug abuse or dependence, who had  a follow-up visit for alcohol or other drug abuse within 30 days.

Follow-up After Emergency  Department Visit for Mental Illness – 7 Day

The  percentage of emergency department visits for members 6 years of age and older  with a principal diagnosis of mental illness, who had a follow-up visit for  mental illness within 7 days.

Follow-up After Emergency  Department Visit for Mental Illness – 30 Day

The  percentage of emergency department visits for members 6 years of age and older  with a principal diagnosis of mental illness, who had a follow-up visit for  mental illness within 30 days.

Follow-Up After  Hospitalization for Mental Illness – 7 Day

The percentage of  discharges for members 6 years of age and older who were hospitalized for treatment  of selected mental health diagnoses and who received a follow-up visit with a  mental health practitioner within 7 days after discharge.

Follow-Up After  Hospitalization for Mental Illness – 30 Day

The percentage of  discharges for members 6 years of age and older who were hospitalized for treatment  of selected mental health diagnoses and who received a follow-up visit with a  mental health practitioner within 30 days after discharge.

Follow-Up Care for  Children Prescribed ADHD Medication – Initiation Phase

The percentage of members  6-12 years of age newly prescribed ADHD medication who received one follow-up  visit with practitioner with prescribing authority during the 30-day initiation  phase.

Follow-Up Care for  Children Prescribed ADHD Medication – Continuation and Maintenance Phase

The percentage of members  6-12 years of age newly prescribed ADHD medication who remained on the  prescription for at least 210 days, received one follow-up visit in the  initiation phase, and two follow-up visits within 9 months after the initiation  phase ended.

HIV  Viral Load Suppression – ages 18-64 

The percentage of enrollees  18-64 years of age with a diagnosis of HIV who had a HIV viral load less than  200 copies/mL at last HIV viral load test during the measurement year.

HIV  Viral Load Suppression – ages 65+ 

The percentage of enrollees  65 years of age and older with a diagnosis of HIV who had a HIV viral load less  than 200 copies/mL at last HIV viral load test during the measurement year.

Immunization for  Adolescents – Combination 1

The percentage of  adolescents 13 years of age who received one dose of meningococcal vaccine and  one Tdap vaccine by their 13th birthday.

Initiation of Alcohol and  Other Drug Dependence Treatment – Total

The percentage of members  who initiate treatment through an inpatient alcohol or other drug dependence admission, outpatient visit,  intensive outpatient encounter or partial hospitalization, telehealth or  medication treatment within 14 days of diagnosis.

Lead Screening in  Children

The percentage of  children 2 years of age who received one or more capillary or venous lead blood  tests for lead poisoning by their second birthday.

Medication Management for  People with Asthma – 75% Medication Compliance – Total

The  percentage of members 5-64 years of age during the measurement year who were  identified as having persistent asthma and were dispensed appropriate  medications that they remained on for at least 75% of their treatment period.

Mental Health Readmission  Rate (Inverse Measure)

The percentage of acute  care facility discharges for enrollees 6 years of age and older who were  hospitalized for a mental health diagnosis that resulted in a readmission for a  mental health diagnosis within 30 days.

Metabolic Monitoring for  Children and Adolescents on Antipsychotics – Total

The  percentage of children and adolescents 1-17 years of age who had two or more  antipsychotic prescriptions and had metabolic testing.

Plan All-Cause  Readmissions – ages 18-64 – Total

For  members 18-64 years of age, the number of acute inpatient stays during the  measurement year that were followed by an unplanned acute readmission for any  diagnosis within 30 days and the predicted probability of an acute readmission.

Plan All-Cause  Readmissions – ages 65+ – Total

For  members 65 years of age and older, the number of acute inpatient stays during  the measurement year that were followed by an unplanned acute readmission for  any diagnosis within 30 days and the predicted probability of an acute  readmission.

Timeliness of Prenatal  Care

The percentage of  deliveries that received a prenatal care visit as a member of the plan in the  first trimester, on the enrollment start date, or within 42 days of enrollment  in the plan.

Postpartum Care

The percentage of  deliveries that received a postpartum visit on or between 21 and 56 days after  delivery.

Preventive Dental  Services

The  percentage of enrollees 1-20 years of age who are enrolled in Medicaid or CHIP  Medicaid expansion programs for at least 90 continuous days, are eligible for  EPSDT services, and who received at least one preventive dental service during  the federal fiscal year.

Use of First-Line  Psychosocial Care for Children and Adolescents on Antipsychotics

The  percentage of children and adolescents 1-17 years of age who had a new  prescription for an antipsychotic medication and had documentation of  psychosocial care as first-line treatment.

Use of Multiple  Concurrent Antipsychotics in Children and Adolescents (Inverse Measure)

The  percentage of children and adolescents 1-17 years of age who were on two or  more concurrent antipsychotic medications for at least 90 consecutive days  during the measurement year.

Well-Child Visits in the  First 15 Months of Life – 0 Visits (Inverse Measure) 

The percentage of  children who turned 15 months old during the measurement year who received zero  well-child visits with a PCP.

Well-Child Visits in the  First 15 Months of Life – 6+ Visits

The percentage of  children who turned 15 months old during the measurement year who received six  or more well-child visits with a PCP.

Well-Child Visits in the  Third, Fourth, Fifth, & Sixth Years of Life

The percentage of members  3-6 years of age who received one or more well-child visits with a PCP during  the measurement year.
For more information on Florida Medicaid Quality in Managed Care, please contact:

qualityinmc@ahca.myflorida.com 










                        Medicaid Quality Activities and Projects
                    





                                Annual Technical Report of External Quality Review Results
                            



                                Annual Technical Report of External Quality Review Results April 2016
                            



                                Annual Technical Report of External Quality Review Results April 2017
                            



                                Annual Technical Report of External Quality Review Results March 2015
                            



                                Annual Technical Report of External Quality Review Results May 2018
                            



                                Childrens Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act (CHIPRA) Quality Demonstration Grant
                            



                                Cultural Competency
                            



                                Encounter Data Validation Studies
                            



                                Florida Health Finder
                            



                                Florida Medicaid Draft Comprehensive Quality Strategy (2014 Update)
                            



                                Florida Medicaid Draft Comprehensive Quality Strategy Archive
                            



                                Medicaid Health Plan Report Card
                            



                                Medicaid Managed Care External Quality Review
                            



                                Medicaid Quality Activities and Projects Archive
                            



                                Medicaid Reform Performance Measure Selection
                            



                                Performance Measure Data Submissions for Medicaid
                            



                                Performance Measure Data Submissions for Medicaid Indicator Descriptions
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












