



































Nursing Home Prospective Payment System | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Nursing Home Prospective Payment System












Home




Medicaid




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Medicaid Program Finance




Nursing Home and Audit Services



Nursing Home Prospective Payment System












Nursing Home Prospective Payment System
During the 2016 Legislative Session,  Legislation passed requiring the Agency to contract with an independent  consultant to develop a plan to convert Medicaid payments for nursing home  services from a cost based reimbursement methodology to a prospective payment  system. The Agency has engaged Navigant Consulting, Inc. to perform the  study and develop the plan.
The plan is required to  identify steps necessary complete the transition in a budget neutral manner.  Additionally, the plan is required to address the impact of a prospective  payment system on Medicaid reimbursement rates for hospice providers. As  required by Specific Appropriation 186 of the 2016 General Appropriations Act,  the plan will be submitted to the Governor, the President of the Senate, and the  Speaker of the House of Representatives no later than January 1, 2017.
Effective  October 1, 2018 Florida Medicaid Nursing Home providers will be reimbursed  through a prospective payment system. Please see Section 409.908, Florida  Statutes for the prospective payment parameters adopted by the  legislature.  If the statutes and the reimbursement plan do not  specifically describe certain criteria for the prospective payment system, the  Agency intends to default to the Nursing Facility Payment Method  Recommendations Report.


    Florida Statutes - Nursing Home Payments


    [
                    
                427.2 kB
    ]




    Nursing Facility Payment Method Recommendations  Report


    [
                    
                3.8 MB
    ]



Public Comment and Meeting Notice Archive  










                        Nursing Home and Audit Services
                    





                                Florida Nursing Home: Fair Rental Value Survey
                            



                                Nursing Home Prospective Payment System
                            



                                Nursing Home Prospective Payment System Public Comment and Meeting Notice Archive
                            



                                Florida Nursing Home Prospective Payment Working Group
                            



                                Nursing Home
                            



                                QAF – Quality Assessment Fee
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












