


































QAF – Quality Assessment Fee | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










QAF – Quality Assessment Fee












Home




Medicaid




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Medicaid Program Finance




Nursing Home and Audit Services



QAF – Quality Assessment Fee












QAF – Quality Assessment Fee
 Please remember to remit yourQuality Assessment Fees to: 
Agency for Health Care AdministrationMail Stop #14  2727 Mahan Drive  Tallahassee, Florida 32308
When submitting NHQAF and ICFDD payments, in  order to speed up the process of crediting your account, please remember to  include a copy of the invoice or some documentation regarding the reason and facility  to which the payment applies.   Additionally, AHCA has implemented electronic deposits of payments,  which involves scanning the check or money order into the bank deposit.  Because of this, please do not staple the  check to any documentation, this will ensure that the payment can be processed  as quickly as possible.

Please click here for the Nursing Facility Quality Assessment (NFQA)

More Information
During a Special Session of the Florida Legislature in January 2009, Senate Bill 8-A passed as Chapter 2009-4, Laws of Florida,  creating the Quality Assessment on Nursing Home Facility Providers in  section 409.9082, Florida Statutes, and is effective April 1, 2009. The  Agency for Health Care Administration is responsible for implementing  this assessment which is calculated monthly on a per-resident-day basis  excluding Medicare resident days.
The Agency has developed an online reporting form for nursing homes to submit required information each month. In order to comply with this new statute, it is imperative that each licensed nursing home report their data online and remit their monthly assessment payment no later than the 20th of the following reporting month.
Attached are     




    registration


    [
                    
                982 kB
    ]

  providing step-by-step directions and screenshots.  If you  or your staff have any questions or need further information, please  feel free to contact us via email at Katrina.Derico-Harris@ahca.myflorida.com.
Quarterly Reports:     




    Updated July - September 2021


    [
                    
                23.7 MB
    ]




    Frequently Asked Questions


    [
                    
                80.2 kB
    ]




    Assessment Cost Document, October 2020


    [
                    
                247.1 kB
    ]


Effective for the October 2018 Quality  Assessment reporting month, new bed day rates have been assigned to each  skilled nursing facility. Please click on the Assessment Cost Document (either the Excel or PDF version) to view  your facility's new non-Medicare bed day rate.

Please click here for the Intermediate Care Facility for the Developmentally Disabled Quality Assessment (ICF/DD)


      More Information
Earlier this year, Senate Bill 1658 passed as Chapter 2009-55, Laws of Florida, creating the Quality Assessment on privately owned Intermediate Care Facilities for the Developmentally Disabled in section 409.9083, Florida Statutes and is effective October 1, 2009. The Agency for Health Care Administration is responsible for implementing this assessment which is calculated monthly on a per-resident-day basis. The Agency has developed an online reporting form for ICF/DD’s to submit required information each month.
In order to comply with this new statute, it is imperative that each licensed ICF/DD report their data online and remit their monthly assessments no later than the 15th of the following reporting month.
Attached are     




    registration


    [
                    
                765.8 kB
    ]

  instructions providing step-by-step directions and screenshots. If you or your staff have any questions or need further information, please feel free to contact us via email at Katrina.Derico-Harris@ahca.myflorida.com.
For additional assistance with registration, reporting   and remittance, please contact:
    Katrina Derico-HarrisFinance & Accounting Director     Bureau of Financial ServicesEmail:  Katrina.Derico-Harris@ahca.myflorida.comPhone:  850/412-3822
For additional assistance concerning Medicaid Quality Assessment Fee policy rates and issues please contact:
Yndia Rutland  Acting Regulatory Analyst Supervisor  Nursing Home Reimbursement  Bureau of Medicaid Program Finance  Email: Yndia.Rutland@ahca.myflorida.com  Phone: 850/412-4111









                        Nursing Home and Audit Services
                    





                                Florida Nursing Home: Fair Rental Value Survey
                            



                                Nursing Home Prospective Payment System
                            



                                Nursing Home Prospective Payment System Public Comment and Meeting Notice Archive
                            



                                Florida Nursing Home Prospective Payment Working Group
                            



                                Nursing Home
                            



                                QAF – Quality Assessment Fee
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












