


































Finance and Banking Operations (FBO) | Florida Agency for Health Care Administration











The state of Florida neither endorses links nor approves of links to external sources. External links are made available for the convenience of the internet user. The state of Florida takes no responsibility for a link's operation or content. The links that are shown are not an exclusive listing of organizations available within the state.
Warning: You are leaving the AHCA website





                No, Stay Here
                



                    Ok, I understand
                


















            An official website of the Florida State government.
          















                            Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                        







About the Agency for Health Care Administration| 

Contact AHCA| 

Public Records| 

Public Meetings 






                                    Search
                                






















Medicaid




Go to Medicaid




Medicaid Policy, Quality and Operations




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Florida Health Care Connections (FX)






Health Care Policy and Oversight




Go to Health Care Policy and Oversight




Bureau of Central Services




Bureau of Field Operations




Bureau of Health Facility Regulation




Office of Medicaid Program Integrity




Florida Center for Health Information and Transparency




Office of Plans and Construction






Agency Administration




Go to Agency Administration




About the Secretary




Chief of Staff Office




Information Technology Office




Office of Inspector General




Office of the General Counsel






Find a Facility




Careers










Finance and Banking Operations (FBO)












Home




Medicaid




Medicaid Finance and Analytics




Medicaid Program Finance



Finance and Banking Operations (FBO)












Finance and Banking Operations (FBO)
The FBO Unit is responsible for:

Overseeing the  management of and monitor the financial and banking functions of the fiscal  agent to ensure appropriate payment ($20+ billion) of Medicaid claims.
Coordinating all federal IRS tax reporting efforts for  payments made to providers.
Oversight of the retroactive rate adjustment process to  ensure appropriate payment to facilities.
Assisting in the development of audit programs relating to  fiscal agent operations and review audit engagements, prepare findings and  review responses to findings.
Conducting routine or special independent audits of all  processes/parties involved in Medicaid claims processed by the fiscal agent to  determine compliance with Medicaid program policy.
Executing and managing all contract amendments for the Medicaid fiscal  agent.

Resource Information

Fiscal Agent Contract:
          ME170


Additional Reference Information


Florida Medicaid Management Information System


My Florida Market Place











                        Medicaid Program Finance
                    





                                Budget and Fiscal Planning
                            



                                Finance and Banking Operations (FBO)
                            



                                Financial Monitoring
                            



                                Institutional Reimbursement
                            



                                LIP/DSH/GME Operations
                            



                                Nursing Home and Audit Services
                            



                                Florida Medicaid Provider Minimum Wage Requirements
                            




















Document reader download links:


 MS Word Viewer


 MS PowerPoint Viewer


 Windows Media Player


 Quicktime Media Player


 Windows Media Player


 WinRar


 Adobe PDF Reader













Return to top












ahca.myflorida.com

                                      Official website of the State of Florida
                                    










                        © 2024 Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
                    












